<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>Chips From A German Workshop, Vol. V.</title>
      <author><name reg="Müller, F. Max">F. Max Müller</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>January 14, 2009</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">27810</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="fr"></language>
      <language id="el"></language>
      <language id="de"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
      <language id="sa"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2009-01-14">January 14, 2009</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Geetu Melwani, Chuck Greif, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
            (This file was produced from images generously made available
            by The Internet Archive/Canadian Libraries).
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">CHIPS FROM A GERMAN WORKSHOP</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">BY</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">F. MAX MÜLLER, M. A.,</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">FOREIGN MEMBER OF THE FRENCH INSTITUTE, ETC.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">VOLUME V.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">MISCELLANEOUS LATER ESSAYS.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">NEW YORK:</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">1881.</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='001'/><anchor id='Pg001'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='I. On Freedom'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='I. On Freedom'/>
<head type='sub'>I.</head>
<head>On Freedom.</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
Presidential Address Delivered Before The
Birmingham Midland Institute,
October 20, 1879.
</p>

<p>
Not more than twenty years have passed since
John Stuart Mill sent forth his plea for Liberty.<note place='foot'>Mill
tells us that his Essay <hi rend='italic'>On Liberty</hi> was planned and written down
in 1854. It was in mounting the steps of the Capitol in January, 1855,
that the thought first arose of converting it into a volume, and it was not
published till 1859. The author, who in his Autobiography speaks with
exquisite modesty of all his literary performances, allows himself one
single exception when speaking of his Essay <hi rend='italic'>On Liberty</hi>.
<q>None of my writings,</q> he says, <q>have been either so carefully composed or so
sedulously corrected as this.</q> Its final revision was to have been the work of
the winter of 1858 to 1859, which he and his wife had arranged to pass in
the South of Europe, a hope which was frustrated by his wife's death.
<q>The <hi rend='italic'>Liberty</hi>,</q> he writes, <q>is likely to survive longer
than anything else that I have written (with the possible exception of the
<hi rend='italic'>Logic</hi>), because the conjunction of her mind with mine has
rendered it a kind of philosophic text-book of a single truth, which the changes
progressively taking place in modern society tend to bring out into strong relief: the
importance to man and society, of a large variety of character, and of
giving full freedom to human nature to expand itself in innumerable and
conflicting directions.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
If there is one among the leaders of thought in
England who, by the elevation of his character and
the calm composure of his mind, deserved the so often
misplaced title of Serene Highness, it was, I
think, John Stuart Mill.
</p>

<p>
But in his Essay <q>On Liberty,</q> Mill for once becomes
passionate. In presenting his Bill of Rights,
in stepping forward as the champion of individual
<pb n='002'/><anchor id='Pg002'/>
liberty, he seems to be possessed by a new spirit. He
speaks like a martyr, or the defender of martyrs.
The individual human soul, with its unfathomable
endowments, and its capacity of growing to something
undreamt of in our philosophy, becomes in his
eyes a sacred thing, and every encroachment on its
world-wide domain is treated as sacrilege. Society,
the arch-enemy of the rights of individuality, is represented
like an evil spirit, whom it behooves every
true man to resist with might and main, and whose
demands, as they cannot be altogether ignored, must
be reduced at all hazards to the lowest level.
</p>

<p>
I doubt whether any of the principles for which
Mill pleaded so warmly and strenuously in his Essay
<q>On Liberty</q> would at the present day be challenged
or resisted, even by the most illiberal of philosophers,
or the most conservative of politicians.
Mill's demands sound very humble to <emph>our</emph> ears. They
amount to no more than this, <q>that the individual is
not accountable to society for his actions so far as
they concern the interests of no person but himself,
and that he may be subjected to social or legal punishments
for such actions only as are prejudicial to
the interests of others.</q>
</p>

<p>
Is there any one here present who doubts the justice
of that principle, or who would wish to reduce
the freedom of the individual to a smaller measure?
Whatever social tyranny may have existed twenty
years ago, when it wrung that fiery protest from the
lips of John Stuart Mill, can we imagine a state of
society, not totally Utopian, in which the individual
man need be less ashamed of his social fetters, in
which he could more freely utter all his honest convictions,
more boldly propound all his theories, more
<pb n='003'/><anchor id='Pg003'/>
fearlessly agitate for their speedy realization; in
which, in fact, each man can be so entirely himself
as the society of England, such as it now is, such as
generations of hard-thinking and hard-working Englishmen
have made it, and left it as the most sacred
inheritance to their sons and daughters?
</p>

<p>
Look through the whole of history, not excepting
the brightest days of republican freedom at Athens
and Rome, and you will not find one single period in
which the measure of liberty accorded to each individual
was larger than it is at present, at least in
England. And if you wish to realize the full blessings
of the time in which we live, compare Mill's plea
for Liberty with another written not much more than
two hundred years ago, and by a thinker not inferior
either in power or boldness to Mill himself. According
to Hobbes, the only freedom which an individual
in his ideal state has a right to claim is what he calls
<q>freedom of thought,</q> and that freedom of thought
consists in our being able to think what we like&mdash;so
long as we keep it to ourselves. Surely, such freedom
of thought existed even in the days of the Inquisition,
and we should never call thought free, if it
had to be kept a prisoner in solitary and silent confinement.
By freedom of thought we mean freedom
of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of action,
whether individual or associated, and of that freedom
the present generation, as compared with all former
generations, the English nation, as compared with all
other nations, enjoys, there can be no doubt, a good
measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and
sometimes running over.
</p>

<p>
It may be said that some dogmas still remain in
politics, in religion, and in morality; but those who
<pb n='004'/><anchor id='Pg004'/>
defend them claim no longer any infallibility, and
those who attack them, however small their minority,
need fear no violence, nay, may reckon on an impartial
and even sympathetic hearing, as soon as people
discover in their pleadings the true ring of honest
conviction and the warmth inspired by an unselfish
love of truth.
</p>

<p>
It has seemed strange, therefore, to many readers
of Mill, particularly on the Continent, that this plea
for liberty, this demand for freedom for every individual
to be what he is, and to develop all the germs of
his nature, should have come from what is known as
the freest of all countries, England. We might well
understand such a cry of indignation if it had reached
us from Russia; but why should English philosophers,
of all others, have to protest against the tyranny of
society? It is true, nevertheless, that in countries
governed despotically, the individual, unless he is
obnoxious to the Government, enjoys far greater
freedom, or rather license, than in a country like
England, which governs itself. Russian society, for
instance, is extremely indulgent. It tolerates in its
rulers and statesmen a haughty defiance of the simplest
rules of social propriety, and it seems amused
rather than astonished or indignant at the vagaries,
the frenzies, and outrages of those who in brilliant
drawing-rooms or lecture-rooms preach the doctrines
of what is called Nihilism or Individualism,<note place='foot'>Herzen defined Nihilism
as <q>the most perfect freedom from all settled
concepts, from all inherited restraints and impediments which hamper the
progress of the Occidental intellect with the historical drag tied to its
foot.</q></note>&mdash;viz.,
<q>that society must be regenerated by a struggle for
existence and the survival of the strongest, processes
which Nature has sanctioned, and which have proved
<pb n='005'/><anchor id='Pg005'/>
successful among wild animals.</q> If there is danger
in these doctrines the Government is expected to see
to it. It may place watchmen at the doors of every
house and at the corner of every street, but it must
not count on the better classes coming forward to
enrol themselves as special constables, or even on the
coöperation of public opinion which in England would
annihilate that kind of Nihilism with one glance of
scorn and pity.
</p>

<p>
In a self-governed country like England, the resistance
which society, if it likes, can oppose to the
individual in the assertion of his rights, is far more
compact and powerful than in Russia, or even in
Germany. Even where it does not employ the arm
of the law, society knows how to use that quieter,
but more crushing pressure, that calm, Gorgon-like
look which only the bravest and stoutest hearts know
how to resist.
</p>

<p>
It is against that indirect repression which a well-organized
society exercises, both through its male
and female representatives, that Mill's demand for
liberty seems directed. He does not stand up for
unlimited individualism; on the contrary, he would
have been the most strenuous defender of that balance
of power between the weak and the strong on
which all social life depends. But he resents those
smaller penalties which society will always inflict on
those who disturb its dignified peace and comfort:&mdash;avoidance,
exclusion, a cold look, a stinging remark.
Had Mill any right to complain of these social penalties?
Would it not rather amount to an interference
with individual liberty to deprive any individual or
any number of individuals of those weapons of self-defence?
Those who themselves think and speak
<pb n='006'/><anchor id='Pg006'/>
freely, have hardly a right to complain, if others
claim the same privilege. Mill himself called the
Conservative party the stupid party <foreign lang='fr'
rend='italic'>par excellence</foreign>,
and he took great pains to explain that it was so
not by accident, but by necessity. Need he wonder
if those whom he whipped and scourged used their
own whips and scourges against so merciless a critic?
</p>

<p>
Freethinkers&mdash;and I use that name as a title of
honor for all who, like Mill, claim for every individual
the fullest freedom in thought, word, or deed,
compatible with the freedom of others&mdash;are apt to
make one mistake. Conscious of their own honest
intentions, they cannot bear to be misjudged or
slighted. They expect society to submit to their
often very painful operations as a patient submits
to the knife of the surgeon. This is not in human
nature. The enemy of abuses is always abused by
his enemies. Society will never yield one inch without
resistance, and few reformers live long enough
to receive the thanks of those whom they have reformed.
Mill's unsolicited election to Parliament
was a triumph not often shared by social reformers;
it was as exceptional as Bright's admission to a seat
in the Cabinet, or Stanley's appointment as Dean of
Westminster. Such anomalies will happen in a
country fortunately so full of anomalies as England;
but, as a rule, a political reformer must not be angry
if he passes through life without the title of Right
Honorable; nor should a man, if he will always
speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth, be disappointed if he dies a martyr rather
than a Bishop.
</p>

<p>
But even granting that in Mill's time there existed
some traces of social tyranny, where are they
<pb n='007'/><anchor id='Pg007'/>
now? Look at the newspapers and the journals.
Is there any theory too wild, any reform too violent,
to be openly defended? Look at the drawing-rooms
or the meetings of learned societies. Are not the
most eccentric talkers the spoiled children of the
fashionable world? When young lords begin to
discuss the propriety of limiting the rights of inheritance,
and young tutors are not afraid to propose curtailing
the long vacation, surely we need not complain
of the intolerance of English society.
</p>

<p>
Whenever I state these facts to my German and
French and Italian friends, who from reading Mill's
Essay <q>On Liberty</q> have derived the impression
that, however large an amount of political liberty
England may enjoy, it enjoys but little of intellectual
freedom, they are generally willing to be converted
so far as London, or other great cities are concerned.
But look at your Universities, they say, the nurseries
of English thought! Compare their mediæval spirit,
their monastic institutions, their scholastic philosophy,
with the freshness and freedom of the Continental
Universities! Strong as these prejudices
about Oxford and Cambridge have long been, they
have become still more intense since Professor Helmholtz,
in an inaugural address which he delivered at
his installation as Rector of the University of Berlin,
lent to them the authority of his great name.
<q>The tutors,</q> he says,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ueber
die Akademische Freiheit der Deutschen Universitäten</hi>, Rede
beim Antritt des Rectorats an der Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität in Berlin,
am October 15, 1877, gehalten von Dr. H. Helmholtz.</note>
<q>in the English Universities
cannot deviate by a hair's-breadth from the
dogmatic system of the English Church, without exposing
themselves to the censure of their Archbishops
<pb n='008'/><anchor id='Pg008'/>
and losing their pupils.</q> In German Universities,
on the contrary, we are told that the extreme
conclusions of materialistic metaphysics, the boldest
speculations within the sphere of Darwin's theory of
evolution, may be propounded without let or hindrance,
quite as much as the highest apotheosis of
Papal infallibility.
</p>

<p>
Here the facts on which Professor Helmholtz relies
are entirely wrong, and the writings of some of
our most eminent tutors supply a more than sufficient
refutation of his statements. Archbishops have
no official position whatsoever in English Universities,
and their censure of an Oxford tutor would be
resented as impertinent by the whole University.
Nor does the University, as such, exercise any very
strict control over the tutors, even when they lecture
not to their own College only. Each Master of Arts
at Oxford claims now the right to lecture (<foreign rend='italic'>venia
docendi</foreign>), and I doubt whether they would submit to
those restrictions which, in Germany, the Faculty
imposes on every <foreign rend='italic'>Privat-docent</foreign>.
<foreign rend='italic'>Privat-docents</foreign> in
German Universities have been rejected by the
Faculty for incompetence, and silenced for insubordination.
I know of no such cases at Oxford during
my residence of more than thirty years, nor can I
think it likely that they should ever occur.
</p>

<p>
As to the extreme conclusions of materialistic
metaphysics, there are Oxford tutors who have grappled
with the systems of such giants as Hobbes,
Locke, or Hume, and who are not likely to be frightened
by Büchner and Vogt.
</p>

<p>
I know comparisons are odious, and I should be
the last man to draw comparisons between English
and German Universities unfavorable to the latter.
<pb n='009'/><anchor id='Pg009'/>
But with regard to freedom of thought, of speech,
and action, Professor Helmholtz, if he would spend
but a few weeks at Oxford, would find that we enjoy
it in fuller measure here than the Professors and
<foreign rend='italic'>Privat-docents</foreign> in any Continental University. The
publications of some of our professors and tutors
ought at least to have convinced him that if there
is less of brave words and turbulent talk in their
writings, they display throughout a determination to
speak the truth, which may be matched, but could
not easily be excelled, by the leaders of thought in
France, Germany, or Italy.
</p>

<p>
The real difference between English and Continental
Universities is that the former govern themselves,
the latter are governed. Self-government
entails responsibilities, sometimes restraints and reticences.
I may here be allowed to quote the words
of another eminent Professor of the University of
Berlin, Du Bois Reymond, who, in addressing his
colleagues, ventured to tell them,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ueber
eine Akademie der Deutschen Sprache</hi>, p. 34. Another keen observer
of English life, Dr. K. Hillebrand, in an article in the October number
of the <hi rend='italic'>Nineteenth Century</hi>, remarks: <q>Nowhere
is there greater individual liberty than in England, and nowhere do people renounce
it more readily of their own accord.</q></note> <q>We have still to
learn from the English how the greatest independence
of the individual is compatible with willing
submission to salutary, though irksome, statutes.</q>
That is particularly true when the statutes are self-imposed.
In Germany, as Professor Helmholtz tells
us himself, the last decision in almost all the more
important affairs of the Universities rests with the
Government, and he does not deny that in times of
political and ecclesiastical tension, a most ill-advised
use has been made of that power. There are, besides,
<pb n='010'/><anchor id='Pg010'/>
the less important matters, such as raising of
salaries, leave of absence, scientific missions, even
titles and decorations, all of which enable a clever
Minister of Instruction to assert his personal influence
among the less independent members of the
University. In Oxford the University does not know
the Ministry, nor the Ministry the University. The
acts of the Government, be it Liberal or Conservative,
are freely discussed, and often powerfully resisted
by the academic constituencies, and the personal
dislike of a Minister or Ministerial Councillor
could as little injure a professor or tutor as his favor
could add one penny to his salary.
</p>

<p>
But these are minor matters. What gives their
own peculiar character to the English Universities is
a sense of power and responsibility: power, because
they are the most respected among the numerous
corporations in the country; responsibility, because
the higher education of the whole country has been
committed to their charge. Their only master is
public opinion as represented in Parliament, their
only incentive their own sense of duty. There is no
country in Europe where Universities hold so exalted
a position, and where those who have the honour
to belong to them may say with greater truth <foreign rend='italic'>Noblesse
oblige</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
I know the dangers of self-government, particularly
where higher and more ideal interests are concerned,
and there are probably few who wish for a
real reform in schools and Universities who have not
occasionally yielded to the desire for a Dictator, of a
Bismarck or a Falk. But such a desire springs only
from a momentary weakness and despondency; and
no one who knows the difference between being governed
<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>
and governing one's self, would ever wish to descend
from that higher though dangerous position to
a lower one, however safe and comfortable it might
seem. No one who has tasted the old wine of freedom
would ever really wish to exchange it for the
new wine of external rule. Public opinion is sometimes
a hard master, and majorities can be great
tyrants to those who want to be honest to their own
convictions. But in the struggle of all against all,
each individual feels that he has his rightful place,
and that he may exercise his rightful influence. If
he is beaten, he is beaten in fair fight; if he conquers,
he has no one else to thank. No doubt, despotic
Governments have often exercised the most beneficial
patronage in encouraging and rewarding poets,
artists, and men of science. But men of genius who
have conquered the love and admiration of a whole
nation are greater than those who have gained the
favor of the most brilliant Courts; and we know how
some of the fairest reputations have been wrecked on
the patronage which they had to accept at the hands
of powerful Ministers or ambitious Sovereigns.
</p>

<p>
But to return to Mill and his plea for Liberty.
Though I can hardly believe that, were he still
among us, he would claim a larger measure of freedom
for the individual than is now accorded to every
one of us in the society in which we move, yet the
chief cause on which he founded his plea for Liberty,
the chief evil which he thought could be remedied
only if society would allow more elbow-room to individual
genius, exists in the same degree as in his
time&mdash;aye, even in a higher degree. The principle
of individuality has suffered more at present than
perhaps at any former period of history. The world
<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>
is becoming more and more gregarious, and what the
French call our <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>nature
moutonnière</foreign>, our tendency to
leap where the sheep in front of us has leapt, becomes
more and more prevalent in politics, in religion,
in art, and even in science. M. de Tocqueville
expressed his surprise how much more Frenchmen of
the present day resemble one another than did those
of the last generation. The same remark, adds John
Stuart Mill, might be made of England in a greater
degree. <q>The modern <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>régime</foreign>
of public opinion,</q> he
writes, <q>is in an unorganized form what the Chinese
educational and political systems are in an organized;
and unless individuality shall be able successfully to
assert itself against this yoke, Europe, notwithstanding
its noble antecedents and its professed Christianity,
will tend to become another China.</q>
</p>

<p>
I fully agree with Mill in recognizing the dangers
of uniformity, but I doubt whether what he calls the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>régime</foreign>
of public opinion is alone, or even chiefly,
answerable for it. No doubt there are some people
in whose eyes uniformity seems an advantage rather
than a disadvantage. If all were equally strong,
equally educated, equally honest, equally rich, equally
tall, or equally small, society would seem to them to
have reached the highest ideal. The same people
admire an old French garden, with its clipped yew-trees,
forming artificial walls and towers and pyramids,
far more than the giant yews which, like large
serpents, clasp the soil with their coiling roofs, and
overshadow with their dark green branches the white
chalk cliffs of the Thames. But those French gardens,
unless they are constantly clipped and prevented
from growing, soon fall into decay. As in
nature, so in society, uniformity means but too often
<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>
stagnation, while variety is the surest sign of health
and vigor. The deepest secret of nature is its love of
continued novelty. Its tendency, if unrestrained, is
towards constantly creating new varieties, which, if
they fulfil their purpose, become fixed for a time, or,
it may be, forever; while others, after they have fulfilled
their purpose, vanish to make room for new and
stronger types.
</p>

<p>
The same is the secret of human society. It consists
and lives in individuals, each meant to be different
from all the others, and to contribute his own
peculiar share to the common wealth. As no tree
is like any other tree, and no leaf on the same tree
like any other leaf, no human being is, or is meant
to be, exactly like any other human being. It is in
this endless, and to us inconceivable, variety of human
souls that the deepest purpose of human life
is to be realized; and the more society fulfils that
purpose, the more its allows free scope for the development
of every individual germ, the richer will be
the harvest in no distant future. Such is the mystery
of individuality that I do not wonder if even
those philosophers who, like Mill, confine the use of
the word <hi rend='italic'>sacred</hi> within the very smallest compass, see
in each individual soul something sacred, something
to be revered, even where we cannot understand it,
something to be protected against all vulgar violence.
</p>

<p>
Where I differ from Mill and his school is on the
question as to the quarter from whence the epidemic
of uniformity springs which threatens the free development
of modern society. Mill points to the society
in which we move; to those who are in front of us,
to our contemporaries. I feel convinced that our
real enemies are at our back, and that the heaviest
<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>
chains which are fastened on us are those made, not
by the present, but by past generations&mdash;by our ancestors,
not by our contemporaries.
</p>

<p>
It is on this point, on the trammels of individual
freedom with which we may almost be said to be
born into the world, and on the means by which we
may shake off these old chains, or at all events learn
to carry them more lightly and gracefully, that I wish
to speak to you this evening.
</p>

<p>
You need not be afraid that I am going to enter
upon the much discussed subject of heredity, whether
in its physiological or psychological aspects. It is a
favorite subject just now, and the most curious facts
have been brought together of late to illustrate the
working of what is called heredity. But the more
we know of these facts, the less we seem able to comprehend
the underlying principle. Inheritance is one
of those numerous words which by their very simplicity
and clearness are so apt to darken our counsel.
If a father has blue eyes and the son has blue eyes,
what can be clearer than that he inherited them?
If the father stammers and the son stammers, who
can doubt but that it came by inheritance? If the
father is a musician and the son a musician, we say
very glibly that the talent was inherited. But what
does <hi rend='italic'>inherited</hi> mean? In no case does it mean what
<hi rend='italic'>inherited</hi> usually means&mdash;something external, like
money, collected by a father, and, after his death, secured
by law to his son. Whatever else inherited
may mean, it does not mean that. But unfortunately
the word is there, it seems almost pedantic to challenge
its meaning, and people are always grateful if
an easy word saves them the trouble of hard thought.
</p>

<p>
Another apparent advantage of the theory of heredity
<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>
is that it never fails. If the son has blue, and
the father black, eyes, all is right again, for either
the mother, or the grandmother, or some historic or
prehistoric ancestor, may have had blue eyes, and atavism,
we know, will assert itself after hundreds and
thousands of years.
</p>

<p>
Do not suppose that I deny the broad facts of what
is called by the name of heredity. What I deny is
that the name of heredity offers any scientific solution
of a most difficult problem. It is a name, a metaphor,
quite as bad as the old metaphor of <hi rend='italic'>innate
ideas</hi>; for there is hardly a single point of similarity
between the process by which a son may share
the black eyes, the stammering, or the musical talent
of his father, and that by which, after his father's
death, the law secures to the son the possession of
the pounds, shillings, and pence which his father
held in the Funds.
</p>

<p>
But whatever the true meaning of heredity may
be, certain it is that every individual comes into the
world heavy-laden. Nowhere has the consciousness
of the burden which rests on each generation as it
enters on its journey through life found stronger expression
than among the Buddhists. What other
people call by various names, <q>fate or providence,</q>
<q>tradition or inheritance,</q> <q>circumstances or environment,</q>
they call <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Karman</foreign>,
deed&mdash;what has been
done, whether by ourselves or by others, the accumulated
work of all who have come before us, the consequences
of which we have to bear, both for good and
for evil. Originally this <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Karman</foreign>
seems to have been conceived as personal, as the work which we
ourselves have done in our former existences. But,
as personally we are not conscious of having done
<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>
such work in former ages, that kind of
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Karman</foreign>, too,
might be said to be impersonal. To the question
how <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Karman</foreign> began,
what was the nucleus of that
accumulation which forms the condition of present
existence, Buddhism has no answer to give, any more
than any other system of religion or philosophy.
The Buddhists say it began with <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>avidyâ</foreign>, and
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>avidyâ</foreign>
means ignorance.<note place='foot'>Spencer Hardy,
<hi rend='italic'>Manual of Buddhism</hi>, p. 391.</note>
They are much more deeply interested
in the question how <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Karman</foreign> may be
annihilated, how each man may free himself from the influence
of <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Karman</foreign>, and
Nirvâ<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a, the highest
object of all their dreams, is often defined by Buddhist philosophers
as <q>freedom from <foreign lang='sa'
rend='italic'>Karman</foreign>.</q><note place='foot'>Spencer
Hardy, <hi rend='italic'>Manual of Buddhism</hi>, p. 39.</note>
</p>

<p>
What the Buddhists call by the general name of
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Karman</foreign>,
comprehends all influences which the past
exercises on the present, whether physical or mental.<note place='foot'><q>As
one generation dies and gives way to another, the heir of the consequences
of all its virtues and all its vices, the exact result of preëxistent
causes, so each individual, in the long chain of life, inherits all, of
good or evil, which all its predecessors have done or been, and takes up
the struggle towards enlightenment precisely where they left it.</q> Rhys
Davids, <hi rend='italic'>Buddhism</hi>, p. 104.</note>
It is not my object to examine or even to name all
these influences, though I confess nothing is more interesting
than to look upon the surface of our modern
life as we look on a geological map, and to see the
most ancient formations cropping out everywhere
under our feet. Difficult as it is to color a geological
map of England, it would be still more difficult
to find a sufficient variety of colors to mark the different
ingredients of the intellectual condition of her
people.
</p>

<p>
That all of us, whether we speak English or German,
or French or Russian, are really speaking an
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
ancient Oriental tongue, incredible as it would have
sounded a hundred years ago, is now recognized by
everybody. Though the various dialects now spoken
in Europe have been separated many thousands of
years from the Sanskrit, the ancient classical language
of India, yet so close is the bond that holds
the West and East together, that in many cases an
intelligent Englishman might still guess the meaning
of a Sanskrit word. How little difference is there
between Sanskrit <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>sûnu</foreign>
and English <hi rend='italic'>son</hi>,
between Sanskrit <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>duhitar</foreign> and English
<hi rend='italic'>daughter</hi>, between Sanskrit
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>vid</foreign>, to know,
and English to <hi rend='italic'>wit</hi>, between Sanskrit
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>vaksh</foreign>,
to grow, and English to <hi rend='italic'>wax!</hi>
Think how we value a Saxon urn, or a Roman coin,
or a Keltic weapon! how we dig for them, clean
them, label them, and carefully deposit them in our
museums! Yet what is their antiquity compared
with the antiquity of such words as <hi rend='italic'>son</hi> or
<hi rend='italic'>daughter</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>father</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>mother</hi>? There are no monuments older
than those collected in the handy volumes which we
call Dictionaries, and those who know how to interpret
those English antiquities&mdash;as you may see them
interpreted, for instance, in Grimm's Dictionary of
the German, in Littré's Dictionary of the French, or
in Professor Skeats' Etymological Dictionary of the
English Language&mdash;will learn more of the real
growth of the human mind than by studying many
volumes on logic and psychology.
</p>

<p>
And as by our language we belong to the Aryan
stratum, we belong through our letters to the Hamitic.
We still write English in hieroglyphics; and
in spite of all the vicissitudes through which the
ancient hieroglyphics have passed in their journey
from Egypt to Phœnicia, from Phœnicia to Greece,
<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>
from Greece to Italy, and from Italy to England,
when we write a capital F [Cursive F], when we draw the top
line and the smaller line through the middle of the
letter, we really draw the two horns of the cerastes,
the horned serpent, which the ancient Egyptians used
for representing the sound of f. They write the name
of the king whom the Greeks called <hi rend='italic'>Cheops</hi>, and they
themselves <hi rend='italic'>Chu-fu</hi>, like this:<note place='foot'>Bunsen,
<hi rend='italic'>Egypt</hi>, ii. pp. 77, 150.</note>&mdash;
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
<figure url="images/fig1.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <figDesc>Three Egyptian signs.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

<p>
Here the first sign, the sieve, is to be pronounced
<foreign rend='italic'>chu</foreign>;
the second, the horned serpent, <foreign rend='italic'>fu</foreign>,
and the little bird, again, <hi rend='italic'>u</hi>. In the more cursive or Hieratic
writing the horned serpent appears as [Egyptian character]; in the
later Demotic as [Egyptian character] and [Egyptian character]. The Phœnicians, who
borrowed their letters from the Hieratic Egyptian,
wrote [Phoenician character] and [Phoenician character]. The Greeks, who took their
letters from the Phœnicians, wrote [Greek character]. When the Greeks,
instead of writing, like the Phœnicians, from right to
left, began to write from left to right, they turned
each letter, and as [Phoenician character] became
[Greek character], our k, so [Phoenician character], vau,
became F, the Greek so-called Digamma, [Greek character], the
Latin F.
</p>

<p>
The first letter in <foreign rend='italic'>Chu-fu</foreign>,
too, still exists in our
alphabet, and in the transverse line of our H we may
recognize the last remnant of the lines which divide
the sieve. The sieve appears in Hieratic as [Egyptian character], in
Phœnician as [Phoenician character], in ancient Greek as [Greek character], which
occurs on an inscription found at Mycenæ and elsewhere as
the sign of the spiritus asper, while in Latin it is
known to us as the letter H.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Mémoire
sur l'Origine Egyptienne de l'Alphabet Phénicien</hi>, par E. de
Rougé, Paris, 1874.</note> In the same manner
<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>
the undulating line of our capital L [Cursive L] still recalls very
strikingly the bent back of the crouching lion, [Egyptian character],
which in the later hieroglyphic inscriptions represents
the sound of L.
</p>

<p>
If thus in our language we are Aryan, in our letters
Egyptian, we have only to look at our watches to
see that we are Babylonian. Why is our hour divided
into sixty minutes, our minute into sixty seconds?
Would not a division of the hour into ten, or fifty,
or a hundred minutes have been more natural? We
have sixty divisions on the dials of our watches simply
because the Greek astronomer Hipparchus, who
lived in the second century <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi>, accepted the Babylonian
system of reckoning time, that system being
sexagesimal. The Babylonians knew the decimal
system, but for practical purposes they counted by
<foreign rend='italic'>sossi</foreign> and
<foreign rend='italic'>sari</foreign>, the
<foreign rend='italic'>sossos</foreign>
representing 60, the <foreign rend='italic'>saros</foreign>
60 × 60, or 3,600. From Hipparchus that system
found its way into the works of Ptolemy, about 150
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, and thence it was carried down the stream of
civilization, finding its last resting-place on the dial-plates
of our clocks.
</p>

<p>
And why are there twenty shillings to our sovereign?
Again the real reason lies in Babylon. The
Greeks learnt from the Babylonians the art of dividing
gold and silver for the purpose of trade. It has
been proved that the current gold piece of Western
Asia was exactly the sixtieth part of a Babylonian
<foreign rend='italic'>mnâ</foreign>, or
<foreign rend='italic'>mina</foreign>.
It was nearly equal to our sovereign.
The difficult problem of the relative value of gold
and silver in a bi-metallic currency had been solved
to a certain extent in the ancient Mesopotamian
kingdom, the proportion between gold and silver being
fixed at 1 to 13-1/3. The silver shekel current in
<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>
Babylon was heavier than the gold shekel in the
proportion of 13-1/3 to 10, and had therefore the value
of one tenth of a gold shekel; and the half silver
shekel, called by the Greeks a drachma, was worth
one twentieth of a gold shekel. The drachma, or
half silver shekel, may therefore be looked upon as
the most ancient type of our own silver shilling in its
relation of one twentieth of our gold sovereign.<note place='foot'>See Brandis,
<hi rend='italic'>Das Münzwesen</hi>.</note>
</p>

<p>
I shall mention only one more of the most essential
tools of our mental life&mdash;namely, our <emph>figures</emph>,
which we call Arabic, because we received them from
the Arabs, but which the Arabs called Indian, because
they received them from the Indians&mdash;in order
to show you how this nineteenth century of ours is
under the sway of centuries long past and forgotten;
how we are what we are, not by ourselves, but by
those who came before us, and how the intellectual
ground on which we stand is made up of the detritus
of thoughts which were first thought, not on these
isles nor in Europe, but on the shores of the Oxus,
the Nile, the Euphrates, and the Indus.
</p>

<p>
Now you may well ask, <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Quorsum
hæc omnia?</foreign>
What has all this to do with freedom and with the
free development of individuality? Because a man
is born the heir of all the ages, can it be said that he
is not free to grow and to expand, and to develop all
the faculties of his mind? Are those who came before
him, and who left him this goodly inheritance,
to be called his enemies? Is that chain of tradition
which connects him with the past really a galling
fetter, and not rather the leading-strings without
which he would never learn to walk straight?
</p>

<p>
Let us look at the matter more closely. No one
<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>
would venture to say that every individual should
begin life as a young savage, and be left to form his
own language, and invent his own letters, numerals,
and coins. On the contrary, if we comprehend all
this and a great deal more, such as religion, morality,
and secular knowledge, under the general name of
<hi rend='italic'>education</hi>, even the most advanced defenders of individualism
would hold that no child should enter society
without submitting, or rather without being
submitted, to education. Most of us would even go
farther, and make it criminal for parents or even for
communities to allow children to grow up uneducated.
The excuse of worthless parents that they are at liberty
to do with their children as they like, has at last
been blown to the winds, and among the principal
advocates of compulsory education, and of the necessity
of curtailing the freedom of savage parents of
savage children, have been Mill and his friends, the
apostles of liberty and individualism.<note place='foot'><q>Is
it not almost a self-evident axiom, that the State should require
and compel the education, up to a certain standard, of every human being
who is born its citizen? Yet who is there that is not afraid to recognize
and assert this truth?</q> <hi rend='italic'>On Liberty</hi>, p. 188.</note>
I remember the time when pseudo-Liberals were not ashamed to
say that, whatever other nations, such as the Germans,
might do, England would never submit to
compulsory education; but that faint-hearted and
mischievous cry has at last been silenced. A new
era may be said to date in the history of every nation
from the day on which <q>compulsory education</q> becomes
part of its statute-book; and I may congratulate
the most Liberal town in England on having
proved itself the most inexorable tyrant in carrying
it into effect.
</p>

<p>
But do not let us imagine that compulsory education
<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>
is without its dangers. Like a powerful engine,
it must be carefully watched, if it is not to produce,
what all compulsion will produce, a slavish receptivity,
and, what all machines do produce, monotonous
uniformity.
</p>

<p>
We know that all education must in the beginning
be purely dogmatic. Children are taught language,
religion, morality, patriotism, and afterwards,
at school, history, literature, mathematics, and all the
rest, long before they are able to question, to judge,
or choose for themselves, and there is hardly anything
that a child will not believe, if it comes from
those in whom the child believes.
</p>

<p>
Reading, writing, and arithmetic, no doubt, must
be taught dogmatically, and they take up an enormous
amount of time, particularly in English schools.
English spelling is a national misfortune, and in the
keen international race among all the countries of
Europe, it handicaps the English child to a degree
that seems incredible till we look at statistics. I
know the difficulties of a Spelling Reform, I know
what people mean when they call it impossible; but
I also know that personal and national virtue consists
in doing so-called impossible things, and that
no nation has done, and has still to do, so many impossible
things as the English.
</p>

<p>
But, granted that reading, writing, and arithmetic
occupy nearly the whole school time and absorb the
best powers of the pupils, cannot something be done
in play-hours? Is there not some work that can be
turned into play, and some play that can be turned
into work? Cannot the powers of observation be
called out in a child while collecting flowers, or
stones, or butterflies? Cannot his judgment be
<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>
strengthened either in gymnastic exercises, or in
measuring the area of a field or the height of a
tower? Might not all this be done without a view
to examinations or payment by results, simply for
the sake of filling the little dull minds with one sunbeam
of joy, such sunbeams being more likely hereafter
to call hidden precious germs into life than the
deadening weight of such lessons as, for instance,
that <hi rend='italic'>th-ough</hi> is though,
<hi rend='italic'>thr-ough</hi> is through, <hi rend='italic'>en-ough</hi>
is enough. A child who believes that will hereafter
believe anything. Those who wish to see Natural
Science introduced into elementary schools frighten
school-masters by the very name of Natural Science.
But surely every school-master who is worth his salt
should be able to teach children a love of Nature, a
wondering at Nature, a curiosity to pry into the secrets
of Nature, an acquisitiveness for some of the
treasures of Nature, and all this acquired in the fresh
air of the field and the forest, where, better than in
frowzy lecture-rooms, the edge of the senses can be
sharpened, the chest widened, and that freedom of
thought fostered which made England what it was
even before the days of compulsory education.
</p>

<p>
But in addressing you here to-night, it was my intention
to speak of higher rather than of elementary
education.
</p>

<p>
All education&mdash;as it now exists in most countries
of Europe&mdash;may be divided into three
stages&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>elementary</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>scholastic</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>academical</hi>;
or call it <hi rend='italic'>primary</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>secondary</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>tertiary</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Elementary education has at last been made compulsory
in most civilized countries. Unfortunately,
however, it seems impossible to include under compulsory
education anything beyond the very elements
<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>
of knowledge&mdash;at least for the present; though I
know from experience that, with proper management,
a well-conducted elementary school can afford to provide
instruction in extra subjects&mdash;such as natural
science, modern languages, and political economy&mdash;and
yet, with the present system of government
grants, be self-supporting.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Times</hi>,
January 25, 1879.</note>
</p>

<p>
The next stage above the elementary is <hi rend='italic'>scholastic</hi>
education, as it is supplied in grammar schools,
whether public or private. According as the pupils
are intended either to go on to a university, or to
enter at once on leaving school on the practical work
of life, these schools are divided into two classes.
In the one class, which in Germany are called
<foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>Realschulen</foreign>,
less Latin is taught, and no Greek, but more
of mathematics, modern languages, and physical science;
in the other, called <foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>Gymnasia</foreign>
on the Continent,
classics form the chief staple of instruction.
</p>

<p>
It is during this stage that education, whether at
private or public schools, exercises its strongest levelling
influence. Little attention can be paid at large
schools to individual tastes or talents. In Germany&mdash;even
more, perhaps, than in England&mdash;it is the
chief object of a good and conscientious master to
have his class as uniform as possible at the end of the
year; and he receives far more credit from the official
examiner if his whole class marches well and keeps
pace together, than if he can parade a few brilliant
and forward boys, followed by a number of straggling
laggards.
</p>

<p>
And as to the character of the teaching at school,
how can it be otherwise than authoritative or dogmatic?
The Sokratic method is very good if we can
<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>
find the <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>viri Socratici</foreign>
and leisure for discussion. But
at school, which now may seem to be called almost in
mockery σχολή, or leisure, the true method is, after
all, that patronized by the great educators of the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Boys at school
must turn their mind into a row of pigeon-holes, filling
as many as they can with useful notes, and never
forgetting how many are empty. There is an immense
amount of positive knowledge to be acquired
between the ages of ten and eighteen&mdash;rules of grammar,
strings of vocables, dates, names of towns, rivers,
and mountains, mathematical formulas, etc. All depends
here on the receptive and retentive powers of
the mind. The memory has to be strengthened, without
being overtaxed, till it acts almost mechanically.
Learning by heart, I believe, cannot be too assiduously
practised during the years spent at school.
There may have been too much of it when, as the
Rev. H. C. Adams informs us in his <q>Wykehamica</q>
(p. 357), boys used to say by heart 13,000 and 14,000
lines, when one repeated the whole of Virgil, nay,
when another was able to say the whole of the English
Bible by rote: <q>Put him on where you would,
he would go fluently on, as long as any one would
listen.</q>
</p>

<p>
No intellectual investment, I feel certain, bears
such ample and such regular interest as gems of English,
Latin, or Greek literature deposited in the memory
during childhood and youth, and taken up from
time to time in the happy hours of solitude.
</p>

<p>
One fault I have to find with most schools, both in
England and on the Continent. Boys do not read
enough of the Greek and Roman classics. The majority
of our masters are scholars by profession, and
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
they are apt to lay undue stress on what they call
accurate and minute scholarship, and to neglect wide
and cursory reading. I know the arguments for
minute accuracy, but I also know the mischief that is
done by an exclusive devotion to critical scholarship
before we have acquired a real familiarity with the
principal works of classical literature. The time spent
in our schools in learning the rules of grammar and
syntax, writing exercises, and composing verses, is too
large. Look only at our Greek and Latin grammars,
with all their rules and exceptions, and exceptions on
exceptions! It is too heavy a weight for any boy to
carry; and no wonder that when one of the thousand
small rules which they have learnt by heart is really
wanted, it is seldom forthcoming. The end of classical
teaching at school should be to make our boys
acquainted, not only with the language, but with the
literature and history, the ancient thought of the ancient
world. Rules of grammar, syntax, or metre,
are but means towards that end; they must never be
mistaken for the end itself. A young man of eighteen,
who has probably spent on an average ten years
in learning Greek and Latin, ought to be able to read
any of the ordinary Greek or Latin classics without
much difficulty; nay, with a certain amount of pleasure.
He might have to consult his dictionary now
and then, or guess the meaning of certain words; he
might also feel doubtful sometime whether certain
forms came from ἵημι, I send, or εἶμι, I go, or εἰμί, I
am, particularly if preceded by prepositions. In
these matters the best scholars are least inclined to
be pharisaical; and whenever I meet in the controversies
of classical scholars the favorite phrase,
<q>Every school-boy knows, or ought to know, this,</q> I
<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>
generally say to myself, <q>No, he ought not.</q> Anyhow,
those who wish to see the study of Greek and
Latin retained in our public schools ought to feel convinced
that it will certainly not be retained much
longer, if it can be said with any truth that young
men who leave school at eighteen are in many cases
unable to read or to enjoy a classical text, unless they
have seen it before.
</p>

<p>
Classical teaching, and all purely scholastic teaching,
ought to be finished at school. When a young
man goes to a University, unless he means to make
scholarship his profession, he ought to be free to enter
upon a new career. If he has not learnt by that time
so much of Greek and Latin as is absolutely necessary
in after-life for a lawyer, or a student of physical science,
or even a clergyman, either he or his school is
to blame. I do not mean to say that it would not be
most desirable for every one during his University
career to attend some lectures on classical literature,
on ancient history, philosophy, or art. What is to be
deprecated is, that the University should have to do
the work which belongs properly to the school.
</p>

<p>
The best colleges at Oxford and Cambridge have
shown by their matriculation examinations what the
standard of classical knowledge ought to be at eighteen
or nineteen. That standard can be reached by
boys while still at school, as has been proved both by
the so-called local examinations, and by the examinations
of schools held under the Delegates appointed
by the Universities. If, therefore, the University
would reassert her old right, and make the first examination,
called at Oxford Responsions, a general
matriculation examination for admission to the University,
not only would the public schools be stimulated
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
to greater efforts, but the teaching of the University
might assume, from the very beginning, that
academic character which ought to distinguish it from
mere school-boy work.
</p>

<p>
Academic teaching ought to be not merely a continuation,
but in one sense a correction of scholastic
teaching. While at school instruction must be chiefly
dogmatic, at the University is it to be Sokratic? for
I find no better name for that method which is to set
a man free from the burden of purely traditional
knowledge; to make him feel that the words which
he uses are often empty, that the concepts he employs
are, for the most part, mere bundles picked
up at random; that even where he knows facts he
does not know the evidence for them; and where he
expresses opinions, they are mostly mere dogmas,
adopted by him without examination.
</p>

<p>
But for the Universities, I should indeed fear that
Mill's prophecies might come true, and that the intellect
of Europe might drift into dreary monotony.
The Universities always have been, and, unless they
are diverted from their original purpose, always will
be, the guardians of the freedom of thought, the protectors
of individual spontaneity; and it was owing,
I believe, to Mill's want of acquaintance with true
academic teaching that he took so desponding a view
of the generation growing up under his eyes.
</p>

<p>
When we leave school, our heads are naturally
brimful of dogma&mdash;that is, of knowledge and opinions
at second-hand. Such dead knowledge is extremely
dangerous, unless it is sooner or later revived by the
spirit of free inquiry. It does not matter whether
our scholastic dogmas be true or false. The danger
is the same. And why? Because to place either
<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>
truth or error above the reach of argument is certain
to weaken truth and to strengthen error. Secondly,
because to hold as true on the authority of others
anything which concerns us deeply, and which we
could prove ourselves, produces feebleness, if not dishonesty.
And, thirdly, because to feel unwilling or
unable to meet objections by argument is generally
the first step towards violence and persecution.
</p>

<p>
I do not think of religious dogmas only. They
are generally the first to rouse inquiry, even during
our school-boy days, and they are by no means the
most difficult to deal with. Dogma often rages
where we least expect it. Among scientific men the
theory of evolution is at present becoming, or has
become, a dogma. What is the result? No objections
are listened to, no difficulties recognized, and a
man like Virchow, himself the strongest supporter of
evolution, who has the moral courage to say that the
descent of man from any ape whatsoever is, as yet,
before the tribunal of scientific zoölogy, <q>not proven,</q>
is howled down in Germany in a manner worthy of
Ephesians and Galatians. But at present I am
thinking not so much of any special dogmas, but
rather of that dogmatic state of mind which is the
almost inevitable result of the teaching at school. I
think of the whole intellect, what has been called
the <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>intellectus
sibi permissus</foreign>, and I maintain it is the
object of academic teaching to rouse that intellect
out of its slumber by questions not less startling than
when Galileo asked the world whether the sun was
really moving and the earth stood still; or when
Kant asked whether time and space were objects, or
necessary forms of our sensuous intuition. Till our
opinions have thus been tested and stood the test,
we can hardly call them our own.
</p>

<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>

<p>
How true this is with regard to religion has been
boldly expressed by Bishop Beveridge.
</p>

<p>
<q>Being conscious to myself,</q> he writes in his
<q>Private Thoughts on Religion,</q> <q>how great an ascendant
Christianity holds over me beyond the rest,
as being that religion whereinto I was born and baptized;
that which the supreme authority has enjoined
and my parents educated me in; that which every
one I meet withal highly approves of, and which I
myself have, by a long-continued profession, made almost
natural to me: I am resolved to be more jealous
and suspicious of this religion than of the rest, and be
sure not to entertain it any longer without being
convinced, by solid and substantial arguments, of the
truth and certainty of it.</q>
</p>

<p>
This is bold and manly language from a Bishop,
nearly two hundred years ago, and I certainly think
that the time has come when some of the divinity
lecturers at Oxford and Cambridge might well be
employed in placing a knowledge of the sacred books
of other religions within the reach of undergraduates.
Many of the difficulties&mdash;most of them of our own
making&mdash;with regard to the origin, the handing
down, the later corruptions and misinterpretations
of sacred texts, would find their natural solution, if
it was shown how exactly the same difficulties arose
and had to be dealt with by theologians of other
creeds. If some&mdash;aye, if many&mdash;of the doctrines of
Christianity were met with in other religions also,
surely that would not affect their value, or diminish
their truth; while nothing, I feel certain, would
more effectually secure to the pure and simple teaching
of Christ its true place in the historical development
of the human mind than to place it side by side
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
with the other religions of the world. In the series
of translations of the <q>Sacred Books of the East,</q> of which the first
three volumes have just appeared,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Sacred
Books of the East</hi>, edited by M. M., vols. i. to ix.; Clarendon
Press, Oxford, 1879 and 1880.</note> I
wished myself to include a new translation of the
Old and New Testaments; and when that series is
finished it will, I believe, be admitted that nowhere
would these two books have had a grander setting,
or have shone with a brighter light, than surrounded
by the Veda, the Zendavesta, the Buddhist Tripi<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>aka,
and the Qurân.
</p>

<p>
But as I said before, I was not thinking of religious
dogmas only, or even chiefly, when I maintained
that the character of academic teaching must
be Sokratic, not dogmatic. The evil of dogmatic
teaching lies much deeper, and spreads much farther.
</p>

<p>
Think only of language, the work of other people,
not of ourselves, which we pick up at random in our
race through life. Does not every word we use require
careful examination and revision? It is not
enough to say that language assists our thoughts or
colors them, or possibly obscures them. No language
and thought are indivisible. It was not from poverty
of expression that the Greeks called reason and
language by the same word, λόγος. It was because
they knew that, though we may distinguish between
thought and speech, as we distinguish between force
and function, it is as impossible to tear the one by
violence away from the other as it is to separate the
concave side of a lens from its convex side. This is
something to learn and to understand, for, if, properly
understood, will it supply the key to most of our
intellectual puzzles, and serve as the safest thread
through the whole labyrinth of philosophy.
</p>

<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>

<p>
<q>It is evident,</q> as Hobbes remarks,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Computation
or Logic</hi>, t. iii., viii., p. 36.</note> <q>that truth
and falsity have no place but amongst such living
creatures as use speech. For though some brute
creatures, looking upon the image of a man in a glass,
may be affected with it, as if it were the man himself,
and for this reason fear it or fawn upon it in
vain; yet they do not apprehend it as true or false,
but only as like; and in this they are not deceived.
Wherefore, as men owe all their true ratiocination
to the right understanding of speech, so also they
owe their errors to the misunderstanding of the same;
and as all the ornaments of philosophy proceed only
from man, so from man also is derived the ugly absurdity
of false opinion. For speech has something
in it like to a spider's web (as it was said of old of
Solon's laws), for by contexture of words tender and
delicate wits are ensnared or stopped, but strong wits
break easily through them.</q>
</p>

<p>
Let me illustrate my meaning by at least one instance.
</p>

<p>
Among the words which have proved spider's webs,
ensnaring even the greatest intellects of the world
from Aristotle down to Leibniz, the terms <hi rend='italic'>genus</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>species</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>individual</hi>
occupy a very prominent place.
The opposition of Aristotle to Plato, of the Nominalists
to the Realists, of Leibniz to Locke, of Herbart
to Hegel, turns on the true meaning of these
words. At school, of course, all we can do is to teach
the received meaning of <hi rend='italic'>genus</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>species</hi>; and if a
boy can trace these terms back to Aristotle's γένος and
εἶδος, and show in what sense that philosopher used
them, every examiner would be satisfied.
</p>

<p>
But the time comes when we have to act as our
<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>
own examiners, and when we have to give an account
to ourselves of such words as <hi rend='italic'>genus</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>species</hi>.
Some people write, indeed, as if they had seen a
<hi rend='italic'>species</hi> and a <hi rend='italic'>genus</hi>
walking about in broad daylight;
but a little consideration will show us that these
words express subjective concepts, and that, if the
whole world were silent, there would never have been
a thought of a <hi rend='italic'>genus</hi> or a
<hi rend='italic'>species</hi>. There are languages
in which we look in vain for corresponding
words; and if we had been born in the atmosphere
of such a language, these terms and thoughts would
not exist for us. They came to us, directly or indirectly,
from Aristotle. But Aristotle did not invent
them, he only defined them in his own way, so that,
for instance, according to him, all living beings would
constitute a <hi rend='italic'>genus</hi>, men a
<hi rend='italic'>species</hi>, and Sokrates an <hi rend='italic'>individual</hi>.
</p>

<p>
No one would say that Aristotle had not a perfect
right to define these terms, if those who use them in
his sense would only always remember that they are
thinking the thoughts of Aristotle, and not their
own. The true way to shake off the fetters of old
words, and to learn to think our own thoughts, is to
follow them up from century to century, to watch
their development, and in the end to bring ourselves
face to face with those who first found and framed
both words and thoughts. If we do this with <hi rend='italic'>genus</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>species</hi>, we shall find that the words which Aristotle
defined&mdash;viz., γένος and εἶδος&mdash;had originally
a very different and far more useful application than
that which he gave to them. γένος, <hi rend='italic'>genus</hi>, meant generation,
and comprehended such living beings only as
were believed to have a common origin, however they
might differ in outward appearance, as, for instance,
<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>
the spaniel and the bloodhound, or, according to Darwin,
the ape and the man. εἶδος, or species, on the
contrary, meant appearance, and comprehended all
such things as had the same form or appearance,
whether they had a common origin or not, as if we
were to speak of a species of four-footed, two-footed,
horned, winged, or blue animals.
</p>

<p>
That two such concepts, as we have here explained,
had a natural justification we may best learn from the
fact that exactly the same thoughts found expression
in Sanskrit. There, too, we find <hi rend='italic'>g</hi>âti, generation,
used in the sense of <hi rend='italic'>genus,</hi> and opposed to
âk<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>ti,
appearance, used in the sense of <hi rend='italic'>species</hi>.
</p>

<p>
So long as these two words or thoughts were used
independently (much as we now speak of a genealogical
as independent of a morphological classification)
no harm could accrue. A family, for instance,
might be called a γένος, the <hi rend='italic'>gens</hi> or clan was a γένος,
the nation (<hi rend='italic'>gnatio</hi>) was a γένος, the whole human
kith and kin was a γένος; in fact, all that was descended
from common ancestors was a true γένος.
There is no obscurity of thought in this.
</p>

<p>
On the other side, taking εἶδος or species in its original
sense, one man might be said to be like another
in his εἶδος or appearance. An ape, too, might quite
truly be said to have the same εἶδος or species or appearance
as a man, without any prejudice as to their
common origin. People might also speak of different
εἴδη or forms or classes of things, such as different
kinds of metals, or tools, or armor, without committing
themselves in the least to any opinion as to their
common descent.
</p>

<p>
Often it would happen that things belonging to
the same εἶδος, such as the white man and the negro,
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
differed in their εἶδος or appearance; often also that
things belonged to the same εἶδος, such as eatables,
differed in their γένος, as, for instance, meat and vegetables.
</p>

<p>
All this is clear and simple. The confusion began
when these two terms, instead of being coördinate,
were subordinated to each other by the philosophers
of Greece, so that what from one point of view was
called a <hi rend='italic'>genus</hi>, might from another be called a species,
and <hi rend='italic'>vice versâ</hi>. Human beings, for instance,
were now called a <hi rend='italic'>species</hi>,
all living beings a <hi rend='italic'>genus</hi>,
which may be true in logic, but is utterly false in
what is older than logic&mdash;viz., language, thought, or
fact. According to language, according to reason,
and according to nature, all human beings constitute
a γένος, or generation, so long as they are supposed to
have common ancestors; but with regard to all living
beings we can only say that they form an εἶδος&mdash;that
is, agree in certain appearances, until it has
been proved that even Mr. Darwin was too modest
in admitting at least four or five different ancestors
for the whole animal world.<note place='foot'>Lectures
on Mr. Darwin's <q>Philosophy of Language,</q> <hi rend='italic'>Fraser's
Magazine</hi>, June, 1873, p. 26.</note>
</p>

<p>
In tracing the history of these two words, γένος and
εἶδος, you may see passing before your eyes almost the
whole panorama of philosophy, from Plato's "ideas"
down to Hegel's <hi rend='italic'>Idee</hi>.
The question of <hi rend='italic'>genera</hi>, their
origin and subdivision, occupied chiefly the attention
of natural philosophers, who, after long controversies
about the origin and classification of
<hi rend='italic'>genera</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>species</hi>,
seem at last, thanks to the clear sight of Darwin,
to have arrived at the old truth which was prefigured
in language&mdash;namely, that Nature knows nothing
<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>
but <hi rend='italic'>genera</hi>, or generations, to be traced back to a limited
number of ancestors, and that the so-called <hi rend='italic'>species</hi>
are only <hi rend='italic'>genera</hi>, whose genealogical descent is <hi rend='italic'>as
yet</hi> more or less obscure.
</p>

<p>
But the question as to the nature of the εἶδος became
a vital question in every system of philosophy.
Granting, for instance, that women in every clime
and country formed one species, it was soon asked
what constituted a species? If all women shared a
common form, what was that form? Where was it?
So long as it was supposed that all women descended
from Eve, the difficulty might be slurred over by the
name of heredity. But the more thoughtful would
ask even then how it was that, while all individual
women came and went and vanished, the form in
which they were cast remained the same?
</p>

<p>
Here you see how philosophical mythology springs
up. The very question what εἶδος or species or form
was, and where these things were kept, changed those
words from predicates into subjects. εἶδος was conceived
as something independent and substantial,
something within or above the individuals participating
in it, something unchangeable and eternal. Soon
there arose as many εἴδη or forms or types as there
were general concepts. They were considered the
only true realities of which the phenomenal world is
only as a shadow that soon passeth away. Here we
have, in fact, the origin of Plato's ideas, and of the
various systems of idealism which followed his lead,
while the opposite opinion that ideas have no independent
existence, and that the one is nowhere found
except in the many (τὸ ἕν παρὰ τὰ πολλά), was strenuously
defended by Aristotle and his followers.<note place='foot'>Prantl,
<hi rend='italic'>Geschichte der Logik</hi>, vol. i. p. 121.</note>
</p>

<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>

<p>
The same red thread runs through the whole philosophy
of the Middle Ages. Men were cited before
councils and condemned as heretics because they declared
that <hi rend='italic'>animal</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>man</hi>,
or <hi rend='italic'>woman</hi> were mere names,
and that they could not bring themselves to believe
in an ideal animal, an ideal man, an ideal woman as
the invisible, supernatural, or metaphysical types of
the ordinary animal, the individual man, the single
woman. Those philosophers, called <hi rend='italic'>Nominalists</hi>, in
opposition to the <hi rend='italic'>Realists</hi>, declared that all general
terms were <emph>names only</emph>, and that nothing could claim
reality but the individual.
</p>

<p>
We cannot follow this controversy farther, as it
turns up again between Locke and Leibniz, between
Herbart and Hegel. Suffice it to say that the knot,
as it was tied by language, can be untied by the science
of language alone, which teaches us that there
is and can be no such thing as <q>a name only.</q> That
phrase ought to be banished from all works on philosophy.
A name is and always has been the subjective
side of our knowledge, but that subjective side is as
impossible without an objective side as a key is without
a lock. It is useless to ask which of the two is
the more real, for they are real only by being, not
two, but one. Realism is as one-sided as Nominalism.
But there is a higher Nominalism, which might better
be called the Science of Language, and which
teaches us that, apart from sensuous perception, all
human knowledge is by names and by names only,
and that the object of names is always the general.
</p>

<p>
This is but one out of hundreds and thousands of
cases to show how names and concepts which come
to us by tradition must be submitted to very careful
snuffing before they will yield a pure light. What I
<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>
mean by academic teaching and academic study is
exactly this process of snuffing, this changing of traditional
words into living words, this tracing of modern
thought back to ancient primitive thought, this
living, as it were, once more, so far as it concerns
us, the whole history of human thought ourselves,
till we are as little afraid to differ from Plato or
Aristotle as from Comte or Darwin.
</p>

<p>
Plato and Aristotle are, no doubt, great names;
every school-boy is awed by them, even though he
may have read very little of their writings. This,
too, is a kind of dogmatism that requires correction.
Now, at his University, a young student might chance
to hear the following, by no means respectful, remarks
about Aristotle, which I copy from one of the
greatest English scholars and philosophers: <q>There
is nothing so absurd that the old philosophers, as
Cicero saith, who was one of them, have not some
of them maintained; and I believe that scarce anything
can be more absurdly said in natural philosophy
than that which now is called Aristotle's Metaphysics;
or more repugnant to government than much of
that he hath said in his Politics; nor more ignorantly
than a great part of his Ethics.</q> I am far from approving
this judgment, but I think that the shock
which a young scholar receives on seeing his idols so
mercilessly broken is salutary. It throws him back
on his own resources; it makes him honest to himself.
If he thinks the criticism thus passed on Aristotle
unfair, he will begin to read his works with new
eyes. He will not only construe his words, but try
to reconstruct in his own mind the thoughts so carefully
elaborated by that ancient philosopher. He
will judge of their truth without being swayed by
<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>
the authority of a great name, and probably in the
end value what is valuable in Aristotle, or Plato, or
any other great philosopher far more highly and honestly
than if he had never seen them trodden under
foot.
</p>

<p>
Do not suppose that I look upon the Universities
as purely iconoclastic, as chiefly intended to teach us
how to break the idols of the schools. Far from it!
But I do look upon them as meant to supply a fresher
atmosphere than we breathed at school, and to shake
our mind to its very roots, as a storm shakes the
young oaks, not to throw them down, but to make
them grasp all the more firmly the hard soil of fact
and truth! <q><hi rend='italic'>Stand upright on thy feet</hi></q> ought to
be written over the gate of every college, if the epidemic
of uniformity and sequacity which Mill saw
approaching from China, and which since his time
has made such rapid progress Westward, is ever to
be stayed.
</p>

<p>
Academic freedom is not without its dangers; but
there are dangers which it is safer to face than to
avoid. In Germany&mdash;so far as my own experience
goes&mdash;students are often left too much to themselves,
and it is only the cleverest among them, or those who
are personally recommended, who receive from the
professors that individual guidance and encouragement
which should and could be easily extended to
all.
</p>

<p>
There is too much time spent in the German Universities
in mere lecturing, and often in simply retailing
to a class what each student might read in
books in a far more perfect form. Lectures are useful
if they teach us how to teach ourselves; if they
stimulate; if they excite sympathy and curiosity; if
<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>
they give advice that springs from personal experience;
if they warn against wrong roads; if, in fact,
they have less the character of a show-window than
of a workshop. Half an hour's conversation with a
tutor or a professor often does more than a whole
course of lectures in giving the right direction and
the right spirit to a young man's studies. Here I
may quote the words of Professor Helmholtz, in full
agreement with him. <q>When I recall the memory
of my own University life,</q> he writes, <q>and the impression
which a man like Johannes Müller, the professor
of physiology, made on us, I must set the
highest value on the personal intercourse with teachers
from whom one learns how thought works in independent
heads. Whoever has come in contact but
once with one or several first-class men will find his
intellectual standard changed for life.</q>
</p>

<p>
In English Universities, on the contrary, there is
too little of academic freedom. There is not only
guidance, but far too much of constant personal control.
It is often thought that English undergraduates
could not be trusted with that amount of academic
freedom which is granted to German students, and
that most of them, if left to choose their own work,
their own time, their own books, and their own teachers,
would simply do nothing. This seems to me unfair
and untrue. Most horses, if you take them to
the water, will drink; and the best way to make
them drink is to leave them alone. I have lived long
enough in English and in German Universities to
know that the intellectual fibre is as strong and sound
in the English as in the German youth. But if you
supply a man, who wishes to learn swimming, with
bladders&mdash;nay, if you insist on his using them&mdash;he
<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>
will use them, but he will probably never learn to
swim. Take them away, on the contrary, and depend
on it, after a few aimless strokes and a few painful
gulps, he will use his arms and his legs, and he
will swim. If young men do not learn to use their
arms, their legs, their muscles, their senses, their
brain, and their heart too, during the bright years of
their University life, when are they to learn it?
True, there are thousands who never learn it, and
who float happily on through life buoyed up on mere
bladders. The worst that can happen to them is that
some day the bladders may burst, and they may be
left stranded or drowned. But these are not the men
whom England wants to fight her battles. It has
often been pointed out of late that many of those who
during this century have borne the brunt of the battle
in the intellectual warfare in England, have not
been trained at our Universities, while others who
have been at Oxford and Cambridge, and have distinguished
themselves in after life, have openly declared
that they attended hardly any lectures in college, or
that they derived no benefit from them. What can
be the ground of that? Not that there is less work
done at Oxford than at Leipzig, but that the work
is done in a different spirit. It is free in Germany;
it has now become almost compulsory in England.
Though an old professor myself, I like to attend,
when I can, some of the professorial lectures in
Germany; for it is a real pleasure to see hundreds
of young faces listening to a teacher on the history of
art, on modern history, on the science of language, or
on philosophy, without any view to examinations,
simply from love of the subject or of the teacher. No
one who knows what the real joy of learning is, how it
<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>
lightens all drudgery and draws away the mind from
mean pursuits, can see without indignation that what
ought to be the freest and happiest years in a man's
life should often be spent between cramming and examinations.
</p>

<p>
And here I have at last mentioned the word, which
to many friends of academic freedom, to many who
dread the baneful increase of uniformity, may seem
the cause of all mischief, the most powerful engine
for intellectual levelling&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Examination</hi>.
</p>

<p>
There is a strong feeling springing up everywhere
against the tyranny of examinations, against the
cramping and withering influence which they are
supposed to exercise on the youth of England. I
cannot join in that outcry. I well remember that
the first letters which I ventured to address to the
<hi rend='italic'>Times</hi>, in very imperfect English, were in favor of
examinations. They were signed <hi rend='italic'>La Carrière ouverte</hi>,
and were written before the days of the Civil Service
Commission! I well remember, too, that the first
time I ventured to speak, or rather to stammer, in
public, was in favor of examinations. That was in
1857, at Exeter, when the first experiment was made,
under the auspices of Sir T. Acland, in the direction
of what has since developed into the Oxford and
Cambridge Local Examinations. I have been an examiner
myself for many years, I have watched the
growth of that system in England from year to year,
and, in spite of all that has been said and written of
late against it, I confess I do not see how it would be
possible to abolish it, and return to the old system of
appointment by patronage.
</p>

<p>
But though I have not lost my faith in examinations,
I cannot conceal the fact that I am frightened
<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>
by the manner in which they are conducted, and by
the results which they produce. As you are interested
yourselves at this Midland Institute in the successful
working of examinations, you will perhaps
allow me in conclusion to add a few remarks on the
safeguards necessary for the efficient working of examinations.
</p>

<p>
All examinations are a means to ascertain how
pupils have been taught; they ought never to be
allowed to become the end for which pupils are
taught. Teaching with a view to them lowers the
teacher in the eyes of his pupils; learning with a
view to them is apt to produce shallowness and dishonesty.
</p>

<p>
Whatever attractions learning possesses in itself,
and whatever efforts were formerly made by boys at
school from a sense of duty, all this is lost if they
once imagine that the highest object of all learning is
to gain marks in a competition.
</p>

<p>
In order to maintain the proper relation between
teacher and pupil, all pupils should be made to look
to their teachers as their natural examiners and fairest
judges, and therefore in every examination the report
of the teacher ought to carry the greatest weight.
This is the principle followed abroad in examining
candidates at public schools; and even in their examination
on leaving school, which gives them the right
to enter the University, they know that their success
depends far more on the work which they have done
during the years at school, than on the work done on
the few days of their examination. There are outside
examiners appointed by Government to check the
work done at schools and during the examinations;
but the cases in which they have to modify or reverse
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
the award of the master are extremely rare, and they
are felt to reflect seriously on the competency or impartiality
of the school authorities.
</p>

<p>
To leave examinations entirely to strangers reduces
them to the level of lotteries, and fosters a cleverness
in teachers and taught often akin to dishonesty. An
examiner may find out what a candidate knows <emph>not</emph>,
he can hardly ever find out all he knows; and even if
he succeeds in finding out <emph>how much</emph> a candidate
knows, he can seldom find out <emph>how</emph> he knows it. On
these points the opinion of the masters who have
watched their pupils for years is indispensable for the
sake of the examiner, for the sake of the pupils, and
for the sake of their teachers.
</p>

<p>
I know I shall be told that it would be impossible
to trust the masters, and to be guided by their opinion,
because they are interested parties. Now, first
of all, there are far more honest men in the world
than dishonest, and it does not answer to legislate as
if all school-masters were rogues. It is enough that
they should know that their reports would be scrutinized,
to keep even the most reprobate of teachers
from bearing false witness in favor of their pupils.
</p>

<p>
Secondly, I believe that unnecessary temptation is
now being placed before all parties concerned in examinations.
The proper reward for a good examination
should be honor, not pounds, shillings, and pence.
The mischief done by pecuniary rewards offered in
the shape of scholarships and exhibitions at school
and University, begins to be recognized very widely.
To train a boy of twelve for a race against all England
is generally to overstrain his faculties, and often
to impair his usefulness in later life; but to make
him feel that by his failure he will entail on his father
<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>
the loss of a hundred a year, and on his teacher
the loss of pupils, is simply cruel at that early age.
</p>

<p>
It is said that these scholarships and exhibitions
enable the sons of poor parents to enjoy the privilege
of the best education in England, from which they
would otherwise be debarred by the excessive costliness
of our public schools. But even this argument,
strong as it seems, can hardly stand, for I believe it
could be shown that the majority of those who are
successful in obtaining scholarships and exhibitions
at school or at the University are boys whose parents
have been able to pay the highest price for their children's
previous education. If all these prizes were
abolished, and the funds thus set free used to lessen
the price of education at school and in college, I believe
that the sons of poor parents would be far more
benefited than by the present system. It might also
be desirable to lower the school fees in the case of the
sons of poor parents, who were doing well at school
from year to year; and, in order to guard against
favoritism, an examination, particularly
<foreign rend='italic'>vivâ voce</foreign>, before
all the masters of a school, possibly even with
some outside examiner, might be useful. But the
present system bids fair to degenerate into mere
horse-racing, and I shall not wonder if, sooner or
later, the two-year olds entered for the race have to
be watched by their trainer that they may not be
overfed or drugged against the day of the race. It
has come to this, that schools are bidding for clever
boys in order to run them in the races, and in France,
I read, that parents actually extort money from
schools by threatening to take away the young racers
that are likely to win the Derby.<note place='foot'>L. Noiré,
<hi rend='italic'>Pädagogisches Skizzenbuch</hi>, p. 157; <q>Todtes Wissen.</q></note>
</p>

<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>

<p>
If we turn from the schools to the Universities we
find here, too, the same complaints against over-examination.
Now it seems to me that every University,
in order to maintain its position, has a perfect
right to demand two examinations, but no more: one
for admission, the other for a degree. Various attempts
have been made in Germany, in Russia, in
France, and in England to change and improve the
old academic tradition, but in the end the original,
and, as it would seem, the natural system, has generally
proved its wisdom and reasserted its right.
</p>

<p>
If a University surrenders the right of examining
those who wish to be admitted, the tutors will often
have to do the work of school-masters, and the professors
can never know how high or how low they should
aim in their public lectures; and the result will be a
lowering of the standard at the Universities, and consequently
at the public schools. Some Universities,
on the contrary, like over-anxious mothers, have multiplied
examinations so as to make quite sure, at the
end of each term or each year, that the pupils confided
to them have done at least some work. This
kind of forced labor may do some good to the incorrigibly
idle, but it does the greatest harm to all the
rest. If there is an examination at the end of each
year, there can be no freedom left for any independent
work. Both teachers and taught will be guided
by the same pole-star&mdash;examinations; no deviation
from the beaten track will be considered safe, and all
the pleasure derived from work done for its own sake,
and all the just pride and joy, which those only know
who have ever ventured out by themselves on the
open sea of knowledge, must be lost.
</p>

<p>
We must not allow ourselves to be deceived by the
brilliant show of examination papers.
</p>

<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>

<p>
It is certainly marvellous what an amount of
knowledge candidates will produce before their examiners;
but those who have been both examined
and examiners know best how fleeting that knowledge
often is, and how different from that other
knowledge which has been acquired slowly and
quietly, for its own sake, for our own sake, without
a thought as to whether it would ever pay at examinations
or not. A candidate, after giving most glibly
the dates and the titles of the principal works of
Cobbett, Gibbon, Burke, Adam Smith, and David
Hume, was asked whether he had ever seen any of
their writings, and he had to answer, No. Another
who was asked which of the works of Pheidias he
had seen, replied that he had only read the first two
books. This is the kind of dishonest knowledge
which is fostered by too frequent examinations.
There are two kinds of knowledge, the one that
enters into our very blood, the other which we carry
about in our pockets. Those who read for examinations
have generally their pockets cram full; those
who work on quietly and have their whole heart in
their work are often discouraged at the small amount
of their knowledge, at the little life-blood they have
made. But what they have learnt has really become
their own, has invigorated their whole frame, and in
the end they have often proved the strongest and
happiest men in the battle of life.
</p>

<p>
Omniscience is at present the bane of all our
knowledge. From the day he leaves school and
enters the University a man ought to make up his
mind that in many things he must either remain
altogether ignorant, or be satisfied with knowledge
at second-hand. Thus only can he clear the decks
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
for action. And the sooner he finds out what his
own work is to be, the more useful and delightful
will be his life at the University and later. There
are few men who have a passion for all knowledge;
there is hardly one who has not a hobby of his own.
Those so-called hobbies ought to be utilized, and not,
as they are now, discouraged, if we wish our Universities
to produce more men like Faraday, Carlyle,
Grote, or Darwin. I do not say that in an examination
for a University degree a minimum of what is
now called general culture should not be insisted on;
but in addition to that, far more freedom ought to
be given to the examiner to let each candidate produce
his own individual work. This is done to a far
greater extent in Continental than in English Universities,
and the examinations are therefore mostly
confided to the members of the
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Senatus Academicus</foreign>,
consisting of the most experienced teachers, and the
most eminent representatives of the different branches
of knowledge in the University. Their object is not
to find out how many marks each candidate may
gain by answering a larger or smaller number of
questions, and then to place them in order before
the world like so many organ pipes. They want to
find out whether a man, by the work he has done
during his three or four University years, has acquired
that vigor of thought, that maturity of judgment,
and that special knowledge, which fairly entitle
him to an academic degree, with or without special
honors. Such a degree confers no material advantages;<note place='foot'>Mill
<hi rend='italic'>On Liberty,</hi> p. 193.</note>
it does not entitle its holder to any employment
in Church or State; it does not vouch even for
his being a fit person to be made an Archbishop or
<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>
Prime Minister. All this is left to the later struggle
for life; and in that struggle it seems as if those who,
after having surveyed the vast field of human knowledge,
have settled on a few acres of their own and
cultivated them as they were never cultivated before,
who have worked hard and have tasted the true joy
and happiness of hard work, who have gladly listened
to others, but always depended on themselves,
were, after all, the men whom great nations delighted
to follow as their royal leaders in the onward
march towards greater enlightenment, greater happiness,
and greater freedom.
</p>

<p>
To sum up, no one can read Mill's Essay <q>On
Liberty</q> at the present moment without feeling that
even during the short period of the last twenty years
the cause which he advocated so strongly and passionately,
the cause of individual freedom, has made
rapid progress&mdash;aye, has carried the day. In no
country <emph>may</emph> a man be so entirely himself, so true to
himself, and yet loyal to society, as in England.
</p>

<p>
But, although the enemy whose encroachments
Mill feared most and resented most has been driven
back and forced to keep within his own bounds&mdash;though
such names as Dissenter and Nonconformist,
which were formerly used in society as fatal darts,
seem to have lost all the poison which they once contained&mdash;Mill's
principal fears have nevertheless not
been belied, and the blight of uniformity which he
saw approaching with its attendant evils of feebleness,
indifference, and sequacity, has been spreading
more widely than ever.
</p>

<p>
It has ever been maintained that the very freedom
which every individual now enjoys has been
detrimental to the growth of individuality; that you
<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>
must have an Inquisition if you want to see martyrs,
that you must have despotism and tyranny to call
forth heroes. The very measures which the friends
of individual development advocated so warmly, compulsory
education and competitive examinations, are
pointed out as having chiefly contributed to produce
that large array of pass-men, that dead level of uninteresting
excellence, which is the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>beau
idéal</foreign> of a
Chinese Mandarin, while it frightened and disheartened
such men as Humboldt, Tocqueville, and John
Stuart Mill himself.
</p>

<p>
There may be some truth in all this, but it is certainly
not the whole truth. Education, as it has to
be carried on, whether in elementary or in public
schools, is no doubt a heavy weight which might
well press down the most independent spirit; it is,
in fact, neither more nor less than placing, in a systematized
form, on the shoulders of every generation
the ever-increasing mass of knowledge, experience,
custom, and tradition that has been accumulated by
former generations. We need not wonder, therefore,
if in some schools all spring, all vigor, all joyousness
of work is crushed out under that load of names
and dates, of anomalous verbs and syntactic rules,
of mathematical formulas and geometrical theories
which boys are expected to bring up for competitive
examinations.
</p>

<p>
But a remedy has been provided, and we are ourselves
to blame if we do not avail ourselves of it to
the fullest extent. Europe erected its Universities,
and called them the homes of the Liberal Arts, and
determined that between the mental slavery of the
school and the physical slavery of busy life every
man should have at least three years of freedom.
<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>
What Sokrates and his great pupil Plato had done
for the youth of Greece,<note place='foot'>Zeller,
<hi rend='italic'>Ueber den wissenschaftlichen Unterricht bei den Griechen</hi>,
1878, p. 9.</note> these new academies were
to do for the youth of Italy, France, England, Spain,
and Germany; and, though with varying success,
they have done it. The mediæval and modern Universities
have been from century to century the
homes of free thought. Here the most eminent men
have spent their lives, not in retailing traditional
knowledge, as at school, but in extending the frontiers
of science in all directions. Here, in close intercourse
with their teachers, or under their immediate
guidance, generation after generation of boys
fresh from school have grown up into men during
the three years of their academic life. Here, for the
first time, each man has been encouraged to dare to
be himself, to follow his own tastes, to depend on his
own judgment, to try the wings of his mind, and, lo,
like young eagles thrown out of their nest, they
could fly. Here the old knowledge accumulated at
school was tested, and new knowledge acquired
straight from the fountain-head. Here knowledge
ceased to be a mere burden, and became a power invigorating
the whole mind, like snow which during
winter lies cold and heavy on the meadows, but
when it is touched by the sun of spring melts away,
and fertilizes the ground for a rich harvest.
</p>

<p>
That was the original purpose of the Universities;
and the more they continue to fulfil that purpose,
the more will they secure to us that real freedom
from tradition, from custom, from mere opinion and
superstition, which can be gained by independent
study only; the more will they foster that <q>human
<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>
development in its richest diversity</q> which Mill, like
Humboldt, considered as the highest object of all society.
</p>

<p>
Such academic teaching need not be confined to
the old Universities. There is many a great University
that sprang from smaller beginnings than
your Midland Institute. Nor is it necessary, in order
to secure the real benefits of academic teaching,
to have all the paraphernalia of a University, its colleges
and fellowships, its caps and gowns. What is
really wanted is the presence of men who, having
done good work in their life, are willing to teach
others how to work for themselves, how to think for
themselves, how to judge for themselves. That is
the true academic stage in every man's life, when he
learns to work, not to please others, be they schoolmasters
or examiners, but to please himself, when he
works from sheer love of work, and for the highest
of all purposes, the quest of truth. Those only who
have passed through that stage know the real blessings
of work. To the world at large they may seem
mere drudges&mdash;but the world does not know the
triumphant joy with which the true mountaineer,
high above clouds and mountain walls that once
seemed unsurpassable, drinks in the fresh air of the
High Alps, and away from the fumes, the dust, and
the noises of the city, revels alone, in freedom of
thought, in freedom of feeling, and in the freedom of
the highest faith.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='II. On The Philosophy Of Mythology.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='II. On The Philosophy Of Mythology.'/>
<head type='sub'>II.</head>
<head>On The Philosophy Of Mythology.</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
A Lecture Delivered At The Royal Institution
In 1871.
</p>

<p>
What can be in our days the interest of mythology?
What is it to us that Kronos was the son of
Uranos and Gaia, and that he swallowed his children,
Hestia, Demeter, Hera, Pluton, and Poseidon, as soon
as they were born? What have we to do with the
stories of Rhea, the wife of Kronos, who, in order to
save her youngest son from being swallowed by his
father, gave her husband a stone to swallow instead?
And why should we be asked to admire the exploits
of this youngest son, who, when he had grown up,
made his father drink a draught, and thus helped to
deliver the stone and his five brothers and sisters from
their paternal prison? What shall we think if we
read in the most admired of classic poets that these
escaped prisoners became afterwards the great gods
of Greece, gods believed in by Homer, worshipped by
Sokrates, immortalized by Pheidias? Why should
we listen to such horrors as that Tantalos killed his
own son, boiled him, and placed him before the gods
to eat? or that the gods collected his limbs, threw
them into a cauldron, and thus restored Pelops to
life, <emph>minus</emph>, however, his shoulder, which Demeter
<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>
had eaten in a fit of absence, and which had therefore
to be replaced by a shoulder made of ivory?
</p>

<p>
Can we imagine anything more silly, more savage,
more senseless, anything more unworthy to engage
our thoughts, even for a single moment? We may
pity our children that, in order to know how to construe
and understand the master-works of Homer and
Virgil, they have to fill their memory with such idle
tales; but we might justly suppose that men who
have serious work to do in this world would banish
such subjects forever from their thoughts.
</p>

<p>
And yet, how strange, from the very childhood of
philosophy, from the first faintly-whispered Why? to
our own time of matured thought and fearless inquiry,
mythology has been the ever-recurrent subject
of anxious wonder and careful study. The ancient
philosophers, who could pass by the petrified shells
on mountain-tops and the fossil trees buried in their
quarries without ever asking the question how they
came to be there, or what they signified, were ever
ready with doubts and surmises when they came to
listen to ancient stories of their gods and heroes.
And, more curious still, even modern philosophers
cannot resist the attraction of these ancient problems.
That stream of philosophic thought which, springing
from Descartes (1596-1650), rolled on through the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries in two beds&mdash;the
<emph>idealistic</emph>, marked by the names of Malebranche
(1638-1715), Spinoza (1632-1677), and Leibniz
(1646-1716); and the <emph>sensualistic</emph>, marked by the
names of Locke (1632-1704), David Hume (1711-1776),
and Condillac (1715-1780), till the two arms
united again in Kant (1724-1804), and the full
stream was carried on by Schelling (1775-1854), and
<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>
Hegel (1770-1831),&mdash;this stream of modern philosophic
thought has ended where ancient philosophy
began&mdash;in a Philosophy of Mythology, which, as
you know, forms the most important part of Schelling's
final system, of what he called himself his <hi rend='italic'>Positive
Philosophy</hi>, given to the world after the death
of that great thinker and poet, in the year 1854.
</p>

<p>
I do not mean to say that Schelling and Aristotle
looked upon mythology in the same light, or that
they found in it exactly the same problems; yet there
is this common feature in all who have thought or
written on mythology, that they look upon it as
something which, whatever it may mean, does certainly
not mean what it seems to mean; as something
that requires an explanation, whether it be a system
of religion, or a phase in the development of the human
mind, or an inevitable catastrophe in the life of
language.
</p>

<p>
According to some, mythology is history changed
into fable; according to others, fable changed into
history. Some discover in it the precepts of moral
philosophy enunciated in the poetical language of antiquity;
others see in it a picture of the great forms
and forces of nature, particularly the sun, the moon,
and the stars, the changes of day and night, the succession
of the seasons, the return of the years&mdash;all
this reflected by the vivid imagination of ancient
poets and sages.
</p>

<p>
Epicharmos, for instance, the pupil of Pythagoras,
declared that the gods of Greece were not what, from
the poems of Homer, we might suppose them to be&mdash;personal
beings, endowed with superhuman powers,
but liable to many of the passions and frailties of
human nature. He maintained that these gods were
<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>
really the Wind, the Water, the Earth, the Sun, the
Fire, and the Stars. Not long after his time, another
philosopher, Empedokles, holding that the whole of
nature consisted in the mixture and separation of the
four elements, declared that Zeus was the element
of Fire, Here the element of Air, Aidoneus or Pluton
the element of Earth, and Nestis the element of
Water. In fact, whatever the free thinkers of Greece
discovered successively as the first principles of Being
and Thought, whether the air of Anaximenes, or the
fire of Herakleitos, or the Nous or Mind of Anaxagoras,
was readily identified with Zeus and the other
divine persons of Olympian mythology. Metrodoros,
the contemporary of Anaxagoras, went even farther.
While Anaxagoras would have been satisfied with
looking upon Zeus as but another name of his Nous,
the highest intellect, the mover, the disposer, the governor
of all things, Metrodoros resolved not only the
persons of Zeus, Here, and Athene, but likewise those
of human kings and heroes&mdash;such as Agamemnon,
Achilles, and Hektor&mdash;into various combinations and
physical agencies, and treated the adventures ascribed
to them as natural facts hidden under a thin veil of
allegory.
</p>

<p>
Sokrates, it is well known, looked upon such attempts
at explaining all fables allegorically as too
arduous and unprofitable: yet he, too, as well as
Plato, pointed frequently to what they called the
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>hypónoia</foreign>,
the under-current, or, if I may say so, the
under-meaning of ancient mythology.
</p>

<p>
Aristotle speaks more explicitly:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>It has been handed down,</q> he says, <q>by early
and very ancient people, and left to those who came
after, in the form of myths, that these (the first principles
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
of the world) are the gods, and that the divine
embraces the whole of nature. The rest has been
added mythically, in order to persuade the many, and
in order to be used in support of laws and other interests.
Thus they say that the gods have a human
form, and that they are like to some of the other living
beings, and other things consequent on this, and
similar to what has been said. If one separated out
of these fables, and took only that first point, namely,
that they believed the first essences to be gods, one
would think that it had been divinely said, and that
while every art and every philosophy was probably
invented ever so many times and lost again, these
opinions had, like fragments of them, been preserved
until now. So far only is the opinion of our fathers,
and that received from our first ancestors, clear to
us.</q>
</p>

<p>
I have quoted the opinions of these Greek philosophers,
to which many more might have been added,
partly in order to show how many of the most distinguished
minds of ancient Greece agreed in demanding
an interpretation, whether physical or metaphysical,
of Greek mythology, partly in order to satisfy those
classical scholars, who, forgetful of their own classics,
forgetful of their own Plato and Aristotle, seem to
imagine that the idea of seeing in the gods and heroes
of Greece anything beyond what they appear to be
in the songs of Homer, was a mere fancy and invention
of the students of Comparative Mythology.
</p>

<p>
There were, no doubt, Greeks, and eminent Greeks
too, who took the legends of their gods and heroes in
their literal sense. But what do these say of Homer
and Hesiod? Xenophanes, the contemporary of Pythagoras,
holds Homer and Hesiod responsible for the
<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>
popular superstitions of Greece. In this he agrees
with Herodotus, when he declares that these two
poets made the theogony for the Greeks, and gave to
the gods their names, and assigned to them their honors
and their arts, and described their appearances.
But he then continues in a very different strain from
the pious historian.<note place='foot'>Her. ii. 53,
οὗτοι δέ εἰσι οἱ ποιήσαντες θεογονίην Ἕλλησι, καὶ τοῖσι θεοῖσι τὰς
ἐπωνυμίας δόντες καὶ τιμάς τε καὶ τέχνας διελόντες, καὶ εἴδεα αὐτῶν
σημήναντες.</note> <q>Homer,</q> he says,<note place='foot'><p>Πάντα
θεοῖς ἀνέθηκαν Ὀμηρός θ᾽ Ἠσίοδός τε<lb/>
ὅσσα παρ᾽ ἀνθρώποισι ὀνείδεα καὶ ψόγος ἐστίν.<lb/>
ὡς πλεῖστ᾽ ἐφθέγξαντο θεῶν ἀθεμίστια ἔργα,<lb/>
κλέπτειν μοιχεύειν τε καὶ ἀλλήλους ἀπατεύειν.<lb/>
Sext. Emp. <hi rend='italic'>adv. Math.</hi> 1289; ix. 193.
</p>
<p>
δοκέουσι θεοὺς γεγενῆσθαι<lb/>
τὴν σφετέρην τ᾽ αἴσθησιν ἔχειν φωνήν τε δέμας τε.&mdash;<lb/>
Ἀλλ᾽ εἴτοι χεῖράς γ᾽ εἶχον βόες ἠὲ λέοντες<lb/>
ἥ γράψαι χείρεσσι καὶ ἔργα τελεῖν ἄπερ ἄνδρες,<lb/>
καί κε θεῶν ἰδέας ἔγραφον καὶ σώματ᾽ ἐποίουν<lb/>
τοιαῦθ᾽ οἷόν περ καύτοὶ δέμας εἶχον ὁμοῖον,<lb/>
ἵπποι μέν θ᾽ ἵπποισι, βόες δέ τε βουσὶν ὁμοῖα.<lb/>
Clem. Alex. <hi rend='italic'>Strom.</hi> v. p. 601, c.
</p>
<p>
Ὥς φησιν Ξενοφάνης Αἰθιοπές τε μέλανας σιμούς τε, Θρᾷκες τε
πυρῥοὺς καὶ γλαυκοὺς.
Clem. Alex. <hi rend='italic'>Strom.</hi> vii. p. 711, <hi rend='italic'>B.
Historia Philosophies</hi>, ed.
Ritter et Preller, cap. iii.</p></note> <q>and Hesiod
ascribed to the gods whatever is disgraceful and
scandalous among men, yea, they declared that the
gods had committed nearly all unlawful acts, such as
theft, adultery, and fraud.</q> <q>Men seem to have
created their gods, and to have given to them their
own mind, voice, and figure. The Ethiopians made
their gods black and flat-nosed; the Thracians red-haired
and blue-eyed.</q> This was spoken about 500
<hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi> Herakleitos, about 460 <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi>,
one of the boldest thinkers of ancient Greece, declared that Homer
deserved to be ejected from public assemblies and
flogged; and a story is told that Pythagoras (about
540 <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi>) saw the soul of Homer in Hades, hanging
<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>
on a tree and surrounded by serpents, as a punishment
for what he had said of the gods. And what
can be stronger than the condemnation passed on
Homer by Plato? I shall read an extract from the
<q>Republic,</q> from the excellent translation lately
published by Professor Jowett:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>But what fault do you find with Homer and
Hesiod, and the other great story-tellers of mankind?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A fault which is most serious,</q> I said: <q>the fault
of telling a lie, and a bad lie.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But when is this fault committed?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Whenever an erroneous representation is made
of the nature of gods and heroes&mdash;like the drawing
of a limner which has not the shadow of a likeness
to the truth.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>Yes,</q> he said, <q>that sort of thing is certainly
very blamable; but what are the stories which you
mean?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>First of all,</q> I said, <q>there was that greatest of
all lies in high places, which the poet told about
Uranos, and which was an immoral lie too&mdash;I mean
what Hesiod says that Uranos did, and what Kronos
did to him. The fact is that the doings of Kronos,
and the sufferings which his son inflicted upon him,
even if they were true, ought not to be lightly told
to young and simple persons; if possible, they had
better be buried in silence. But if there is an absolute
necessity for their mention, a very few might
hear them in a mystery, and then let them sacrifice
not a common (Eleusinian) pig, but some huge and
unprocurable victim; this would have the effect of
very greatly reducing the number of the hearers.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>Why, yes,</q> said he, <q>these stories are certainly
objectionable.</q></q>
</p>

<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>

<p>
<q><q>Yes, Adeimantos, they are stories not to be narrated
in our state; the young man should not be told
that in committing the worst of crimes he is far from
doing anything outrageous, and that he may chastise
his father when he does wrong in any manner that
he likes, and in this will only be following the example
of the first and greatest of the gods.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>I quite agree with you,</q> he said; <q>in my opinion
those stories are <emph>not fit to be repeated</emph>.</q>
<q>Neither, if we mean our future guardians to regard
the habit of quarrelling as dishonorable, should
anything be said of the wars in heaven, and of the
plots and fightings of the gods against one another,
which are quite untrue. Far be it from us to tell
them of the battles of the giants, and embroider them
on garments; or of all the innumerable other quarrels
of gods and heroes with their friends and relations.
If they would only believe us, we would tell
them that quarrelling is unholy, and that never up to
this time has there been any quarrel between citizens;
this is what old men and old women should
begin by telling children, and the same when they
grow up. And these are the sort of fictions which
the poets should be required to compose. But the
narrative of Hephaestos binding Here his mother, or
how, on another occasion, Zeus sent him flying for
taking her part when she was being beaten&mdash;such
tales must not be admitted in our state, whether they
are supposed to have an allegorical meaning or not.
For the young man cannot judge what is allegorical
and what is literal, and anything that he receives
into his mind at that age is apt to become indelible
and unalterable; and therefore the tales which they
first hear should be models of virtuous thoughts.</q></q>
</p>

<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>

<p>
To those who look upon mythology as an ancient
form of religion, such freedom of language as is here
used by Xenophanes and Plato, must seem startling.
If the Iliad were really the Bible of the Greeks, as it
has not infrequently been called, such violent invectives
would have been impossible. For let us bear
in mind that Xenophanes, though he boldly denied
the existence of all the mythological deities, and
declared his belief in One God, <q>neither in form nor
in thought like unto mortals,</q><note place='foot'>Εἶς
θεὸς ἔν τε θεοῖσι καὶ ἀνθρώποισι μέγιστος,
οὔ τι δέμας θνητοῖσι ὁμοίιος οὐδὲ νόημα.
Clem. Alex. <hi rend='italic'>Strom.</hi> v. p. 601, c.</note> was not therefore
considered a heretic. He never suffered for uttering
his honest convictions: on the contrary, as far as we
know, he was honored by the people among whom he
lived and taught. Nor was Plato ever punished on
account of his unbelief, and though he, as well as his
master, Sokrates, became obnoxious to the dominant
party at Athens, this was due to political far more
than to theological motives. At all events, Plato, the
pupil, the friend, the apologist of Sokrates, was allowed
to teach at Athens to the end of his life, and
few men commanded greater respect in the best ranks
of Greek society.
</p>

<p>
But, although mythology was not religion in our
sense of the word, and although the Iliad certainly
never enjoyed among Greeks the authority either of
the Bible, or even of the Veda among the Brahmans,
or the Zend Avesta among the Parsis, yet I would
not deny altogether that in a certain sense the mythology
of the Greeks belonged to their religion. We
must only be on our guard, here as everywhere else,
against the misleading influence of words. The word
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
Religion has, like most words, had its history; it has
grown and changed with each century, and it cannot,
therefore, have meant with the Greeks and Brahmans
what it means with us. Religions have sometimes
been divided into <emph>national</emph> or <emph>traditional</emph>, as distinguished
from <emph>individual</emph> or <emph>statutable</emph> religion. The
former are, like languages, home-grown, autochthonic,
without an historical beginning, generally without
any recognized founder, or even an authorized code;
the latter have been founded by historical persons,
generally in antagonism to traditional systems, and
they always rest on the authority of a written code.
I do not consider this division as very useful<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Introduction to the Science of Religion</hi>, p. 139.</note> for a
scientific study of religion, because in many cases it
is extremely difficult, and sometimes impossible, to
draw a sharp line of demarcation, and to determine
whether a given religion should be considered as the
work of one man, or as the combined work of those
who came before him, who lived with him, nay, even
of those who came after him. For our present purpose,
however, for showing at once the salient difference
between what the Greeks and what we ourselves
should mean by Religion, this division is very serviceable.
The Greek religion was clearly a national and
traditional religion, and, as such, it shared both the
advantages and disadvantages of this form of religious
belief; the Christian religion is an historical and, to
a great extent, an individual religion, and it possesses
the advantage of an authorized code and of a settled
system of faith. Let it not be supposed, however,
that between traditional and individual religions the
advantages are all on one, the disadvantages on the
other side. As long as the immemorial religions of
<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>
the different branches of the human race remained in
their natural state, and were not pressed into the service
of political parties or an ambitious priesthood,
they allowed great freedom of thought and a healthy
growth of real piety, and they were seldom disgraced
by an intolerant or persecuting spirit. They were
generally either honestly believed, or, as we have just
seen, honestly attacked, and a high tone of intellectual
morality was preserved, untainted by hypocrisy,
equivocation, or unreasoning dogmatism. The marvellous
development of philosophy in Greece, particularly
in ancient Greece, was chiefly due, I believe, to
the absence of an established religion and an influential
priesthood; and it is impossible to overrate the
blessing which the fresh, pure, invigorating, and elevating
air of that ancient Greek philosophy has conferred
on all ages, not excepting our own. I shudder
at the thought of what the world would have been
without Plato and Aristotle, and I tremble at the
idea that the youth of the future should ever be deprived
of the teaching and the example of these true
prophets of the absolute freedom of thought. Unfortunately,
we know but little of the earliest fathers
of Greek philosophy; we have but fragments, and
those not always trustworthy, nor easily intelligible,
of what they taught on the highest questions that can
stir the heart of man. We have been accustomed to
call the oracular sayings of men like Thales, Pythagoros,
Xenophanes, or Herakleitos, philosophy, but
there was in them as much of religion as in the songs
of Homer and Hesiod. Homer and Hesiod were
great powers, but their poems were not the only
feeders of the religious life of Greece. The stream
of ancient wisdom and philosophy flowed parallel with
<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>
the stream of legend and poetry; and both were meant
to support the religious cravings of the soul. We
have only to attend without prejudice to the utterances
of these ancient prophets, such as Xenophanes
and Herakleitos, in order to convince ourselves that
these men spoke with authority to the people,<note place='foot'>Empedokles,
<hi rend='italic'>Carmina</hi>, v. 411 (<hi rend='italic'>Fragm. Philos. Græc.</hi>
vol. i. p. 12):&mdash;ὦ φίλοι, οἶδα μὲν οὖν ὅτ᾽ ἀληθείη παρὰ μύθοις
οὓς ἐγὼ ἐξερέω; μάλα δ᾽ ἀργαλέη γὲ τέτυκται
ἀνδράσι καὶ δύσζηλος ἐπὶ φρένα πίστιος ὁρμή.</note> that
they considered themselves the equals of Homer and
Hesiod, nay, their betters, and in no way fettered by
the popular legends about gods and goddesses. While
modern religions assume in general a hostile attitude
towards philosophy, ancient religions have either included
philosophy as an integral part, or they have
at least tolerated its growth in the very precincts of
their temples.
</p>

<p>
After we have thus seen what limitations we must
place on the meaning of the word Religion, if we call
mythology the religion of the ancient world, we may
now advance another step.
</p>

<p>
We have glanced at the principal interpretations
which have been proposed by the ancients themselves
of the original purpose and meaning of mythology.
But there is one question which none, either of the
ancient or of the modern interpreters of mythology,
has answered, or even asked, and on which, nevertheless,
the whole problem of mythology seems to turn.
If mythology is history changed into fable, why was
it so changed? If it is fable represented as history,
why were such fables invented? If it contains precepts
of moral philosophy, whence their immoral disguise?
If it is a picture of the great forms and forces
of nature, the same question still returns, why were
<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>
these forms and forces represented as heroes and
heroines, as nymphs and shepherds, as gods and
goddesses? It is easy enough to call the sun a god,
or the dawn a goddess, after these predicates have
once been framed. But how were these predicates
framed? How did people come to know of gods and
goddesses, heroes and nymphs, and what meaning did
they originally connect with these terms? In fact,
the real question which a philosophy of mythology
has to answer is this&mdash;Is the whole of mythology an
invention, the fanciful poetry of a Homer or Hesiod,
or is it a growth? Or, to speak more definitely, Was
mythology a mere accident, or was it inevitable?
Was it only a false step, or was it a step that could
not have been left out in the historical progress of
the human mind?
</p>

<p>
The study of the history of language, which is only
a part of the study of the history of thought, has enabled
us to give a decisive answer to this question.
Mythology is inevitable, it is natural, it is an inherent
necessity of language, if we recognize in language
the outward form and manifestation of thought: it
is, in fact, the dark shadow which language throws
on thought, and which can never disappear till language
becomes altogether commensurate with thought,
which it never will. Mythology, no doubt, breaks
out more fiercely during the early periods of the history
of human thought, but it never disappears altogether.
Depend upon it, there is mythology now as
there was in the time of Homer, only we do not perceive
it, because we ourselves live in the very shadow
of it, and because we all shrink from the full meridian
light of truth. We are ready enough to see that if
the ancients called their kings and heroes Διογενεῖς,
<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>
sprung of Zeus, that expression, intended originally
to convey the highest praise which man can bestow on
man, was apt to lapse into mythology. We easily
perceive how such a conception, compatible in its
origin with the highest reverence for the gods, led almost
inevitably to the growth of fables, which transferred
to divine beings the incidents of human paternity
and sonship. But we are not so ready to see
that it is our fate, too, to move in allegories which
illustrate things intellectual by visions exhibited to
the fancy. In our religion, too, the conceptions of
paternity and sonship have not always been free from
all that is human, nor are we always aware that
nearly every note that belongs to human paternity
and sonship must be taken out of these terms, before
they can be pronounced safe against mythological infection.
Papal decisions on immaculate conception
are of no avail against that mythology. The mind
must become immaculate and rise superior to itself;
or it must close its eyes and shut its lips in the presence
of the Divine.
</p>

<p>
If then we want to understand mythology, in the
ordinary and restricted sense of the word, we must
discover the larger circle of mental phenomena to
which it belongs. Greek mythology, is but a small
segment of mythology; the religious mythologies of
all the races of mankind are again but a small segment
of mythology. Mythology, in the highest sense,
is the power exercised by language on thought in
every possible sphere of mental activity; and I do
not hesitate to call the whole history of philosophy,
from Thales down to Hegel, an uninterrupted battle
against mythology, a constant protest of thought
against language. This will require some explanation.
</p>

<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>

<p>
Ever since the time of Wilhelm von Humboldt, all
who have seriously grappled with the highest problems
of the Science of Language have come to the
conviction that thought and language are inseparable,
that language is as impossible without thought
as thought is without language; that they stand to
each other somewhat like soul and body, like power
and function, like substance and form. The objections
which have been raised against this view arise generally
from a mere misunderstanding. If we speak of
language as the outward realization of thought, we do
not mean language as deposited in a dictionary, or
sketched in a grammar; we mean language as an act,
language as being spoken, language as living and dying
with every word that is uttered. We might perhaps
call this speech, as distinguished from language.
</p>

<p>
Secondly, though if we speak of language, we
mean chiefly phonetic articulate language, we do not
exclude the less perfect symbols of thought, such as
gestures, signs, or pictures. They, too, are language
in a certain sense, and they must be included in language
before we are justified in saying that discursive
thought can be realized in language only. One
instance will make this clear. We hold that we cannot
think without language. But can we not count
without language? We certainly can. We can form
the conception of <hi rend='italic'>three</hi> without any spoken word, by
simply holding up three fingers. In the same manner,
the hand might stand for five, both hands for
ten, hands and feet for twenty.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Daily
Life and Origin of the Tasmanians</hi>, by J. Bonwick, 1870,
p. 143.</note> This is how people
who possessed no organs of speech would speak; this
is how the deaf and dumb <emph>do</emph> speak. Three fingers
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
are as good as three strokes, three strokes are as good
as three clicks of the tongue, three clicks of the
tongue are as good as the sound <hi rend='italic'>three</hi>,
or <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>trois</foreign>, or
<foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>drei</foreign>, or
<foreign rend='italic'>shalosh</foreign> in Hebrew,
or <foreign rend='italic'>san</foreign> in Chinese. All
these are signs, more or less perfect, but being signs,
they fall under the category of language; and all we
maintain is, that without some kind of sign, discursive
thought is impossible, and that in that sense,
language, or λόγος, is the only possible realization of
human thought.
</p>

<p>
Another very common misunderstanding is this:
people imagine that, if it be impossible to think, except
in language, language and thought must be one
and the same thing. But a true philosophy of language
leads to the very opposite result. Every philosopher
would say that matter cannot exist without
form, nor form without matter, but no philosopher
would say that therefore it is impossible to distinguish
between form and matter. In the same way,
though we maintain that thought cannot exist without
language nor language without thought, we do
distinguish between thought and language, between
the inward and the outward λόγος, between the substance
and the form. Nay, we go a step beyond. We
admit that language necessarily reacts on thought,
and we see in this reaction, in this refraction of the
rays of language, the real solution of the old riddle
of mythology.
</p>

<p>
You will now see why these somewhat abstruse disquisitions
were necessary for our immediate purpose,
and I can promise those who have hitherto followed
me on this rather barren and rugged track, that they
will now be able to rest, and command, from the
point of view which we have reached, the whole panorama
of the mythology of the human mind.
</p>

<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>

<p>
We saw just now that the names of numbers may
most easily be replaced by signs. Numbers are simple
analytical conceptions, and for that very reason
they are not liable to mythology: name and conception
being here commensurate, no misunderstanding
is possible. But as soon as we leave this department
of thought, mythology begins. I shall try by at least
one example to show how mythology not only pervades
the sphere of religion or religious tradition, but
infects more or less the whole realm of thought.
</p>

<p>
When man wished for the first time to grasp and
express a distinction between the body and something
else within him distinct from the body, an easy
name that suggested itself was <hi rend='italic'>breath</hi>. The breath
seemed something immaterial and almost invisible,
and it was connected with the life that pervaded the
body, for as soon as the breath ceased, the life of the
body became extinct. Hence the Greek name ψυχή,<note place='foot'><p>The
word ψυχή is clearly connected in Greek with ψύχω, which meant
originally blowing, and was used either in the sense of cooling by blowing,
or breathing by blowing. In the former acceptation it produced ψύχος,
coldness; ψυχρός, cold; ψυχάω, I cool; in the latter ψυχή, breath, then life,
then soul. So far the purely Greek growth of words derived from ψύχω is
clear. But ψύχω itself is difficult. It seems to point to a root
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>spu</foreign>, meaning
to blow out, to spit; Lat. <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>spuo</foreign>,
and <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>spuma</foreign>, foam;
Goth, <foreign rend='italic'>speivan</foreign>; Gr.
πτύω, supposed to stand for σπιύω. Hesychius mentions ψύττει = πτύει,
ψυττόν = πτύελον. (Pott, <hi rend='italic'>Etym. Forsch.</hi> No.
355.) Curtius connects this root with Gr. φυ, in φῦσα, blowing, bellows, φυσάω,
to blow, φυσιάω, to snort, ποι-φύσσω, to blow, and with Lat.
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>spirare</foreign> (<hi rend='italic'>i.e.</hi>
spoisare). See E. B. Tylor, <q>The Religion of Savages,</q> <hi rend='italic'>Fortnightly
Review</hi>, 1866, p. 73.
</p>
<p>
Stahl, who rejected the division of life and mind adopted by Bacon, and
returned to the Aristotelian doctrine, falls back on Plato's etymology of
ψυχή as φυσέχη, from φύσιν ἔχειν or ὀχεῖν, Crat. 400 B. In a passage of his
<hi rend='italic'>Theoria Medica Vera</hi> (Halæ, 1708), pointed out to me by Dr.
Rolleston, Stahl says: <q>Invenio in lexico græco antiquiore post alios, et Budæum
imprimis, iterum iterumque reviso, nomenclaturam nimis quam fugitive
allegatam; φυσέχη, poetice, pro ψυχή. Incidit animo suspicari, an non
verum primum nomen animæ antiquissimis Græcis fuerit hoc φυσέχη, quasi
ἔχων τὸ φύειν, e cuius vocis pronunciatione deflectente, uti vere familiariter
solet vocalium, inprimis sub accentibus, fugitiva enunciatione, sensim
natum sit φυσ-χή φσυχή, denique ad faciliorem pronunciationem in locum
φσυχή, ψυχή. Quam suspicionem fovere mihi videtur illud, quod vocabuli
ψυχῆς, pro anima, nulla idonea analogia in lingua græca occurrat; nam
quæ a ψύχω ducitur, cum verus huius et directus significatus notorie sit
refrigero, indirectus autem magis, spiro, nihil certe hæc ad animam puto.</q>
(P. 44.)</p></note>
<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>
which originally meant breath, was chosen to express
at first the principle of life, as distinguished from the
decaying body, afterwards the incorporeal, the immaterial,
the undecaying, the immortal part of man&mdash;his
soul, his mind, his Self. All this was very natural.
When a person dies, we too say that he has
given up the ghost, and ghost, too, meant originally
spirit, and spirit meant breath.
</p>

<p>
A very instructive analogous case is quoted by Mr.
E. B. Tylor from a compendium of the theology of
the Indians of Nicaragua, the record of question and
answer in an inquest held by Father Francisco de
Bobadilla in the early days of the Spanish conquest.
Asked, among other things, concerning death, the Indians
said: <q>Those who die in their houses go underground,
but those who are killed in war go to serve the gods
(<foreign rend='italic'>teotes</foreign>). When men die,
there comes forth from their mouth something which resembles a person,
and is called <foreign rend='italic'>julio</foreign>
(Aztec <foreign rend='italic'>yuli</foreign>, <q>to live</q>). This
being is like a person, but does not die, and the corpse
remains here.</q> The Spanish ecclesiastics inquired
whether those who go on high keep the same body,
features, and limbs as here below; to which the Indians
answered, <q>No, there is only the heart.</q>
<q>But,</q> said the Spaniards, <q>as the hearts are torn
out</q> (they meant in the case of warriors who fell
into the hands of the enemy), <q>what happens then?</q>
Hereupon the Indians replied: <q>It is not precisely
the heart, but that which is in them, and makes them
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
live, and which quits the body when they die;</q> and
again they said, <q>It is not their heart which goes up
on high, but that which makes them live, that is, the
breath coming out from their mouth, which is called
<foreign rend='italic'>julio</foreign>.</q>
<q>Then,</q> asked the Spaniards, <q>does this
heart, <foreign rend='italic'>julio</foreign>, or soul, die with the body?</q> <q>When
the deceased has lived well,</q> replied the Indians,
<q>the <foreign rend='italic'>julio</foreign> goes up on high with our gods; but when
he has lived ill, the <foreign rend='italic'>julio</foreign> perishes with the body, and
there is an end of it.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Greeks expressed the same idea by saying that
the ψυχή had left the body,<note place='foot'>ἀνδροσδὲ ψυχὴ πάλιν ἐλθεῖν οὔτεν
λειστὴ,<lb/>
οὔθ᾽ ἐλετὴ, ἐπεὶ ἄρ κεν ἀμείψεται ἔρκος ὀδόντων.<lb/>
<hi rend='italic'>Il.</hi> ix. 408.</note> had fled through the
mouth, or even through a bleeding wound,<note place='foot'>διὰ
δ᾽ ἔντερα χαλκὸς ἄφυσσεν δῃώσας;<lb/>
ψυχὴ δὲ κατ᾽ οὐταμένην ὠτειλὴν ἔσσυτ᾽ ἐπειγομέυη.<lb/>
<hi rend='italic'>Il.</hi> xiv. 517.</note> and had
gone into Hades, which meant literally no more than
the place of the Invisible (Ἁίδης). That the breath
had become invisible was matter of fact; that it had
gone to the house of Hades, was mythology springing
spontaneously from the fertile soil of language.
</p>

<p>
The primitive mythology was by no means necessarily
religious. In the very case which we have
chosen, philosophical mythology sprang up by the
side of religious mythology. The religious mythology
consisted in speaking of the spirits of the departed
as ghosts, as mere breath and air, as fluttering
about the gates of Hades, or ferried across the Styx
in the boat of Charon.<note place='foot'><q>Ter frustra compressa manu effugit
imago,<lb/>
Par levibus ventis volucrique simillima somno.</q><lb/>
Virg. <hi rend='italic'>Æn.</hi> ii. 792.</note>
</p>

<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>

<p>
The philosophical mythology, however, that sprang
from this name was much more important. We saw
that <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Psyche</foreign>, meaning originally the breathing
of the body, was gradually used in the sense of vital breath,
and as something independent of the body; and that
at last, when it had assumed the meaning of the immortal
part of man, it retained that character of
something independent of the body, thus giving rise
to the conception of a soul, not only as a being without
a body, but in its very nature opposed to body.
As soon as that opposition had been established in
language and thought, philosophy began its work in
order to explain how two such heterogeneous powers
could act on each other&mdash;how the soul could influence
the body, and how the body could determine
the soul. Spiritualistic and materialistic systems of
philosophy arose, and all this in order to remove a
self-created difficulty, in order to join together again
what language had severed, the living body and the
living soul. The question whether there is a soul or
spirit, whether there is in man something different
from the mere body, is not at all affected by this
mythological phraseology. We certainly can distinguish
between body and soul, but as long as we keep
within the limits of human knowledge, we have no
right to speak of the living soul as a breath, or of
spirits and ghosts as fluttering about like birds or
fairies. The poet of the nineteenth century says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>The spirit does but mean the breath,</q></l>
<l><q rend='post'>I know no more.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
And the same thought was expressed by Cicero two
thousand years ago: <q>Whether the soul is air or fire,
I do not know.</q> As men, we only know of embodied
spirits, however ethereal their bodies may be
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
conceived to be, but of spirits, separate from body,
without form or frame, we know as little as we know
of thought without language, or of the Dawn as a
goddess, or of the Night as the mother of the Day.
</p>

<p>
Though breath, or spirit, or ghost are the most
common names that were assigned through the metaphorical
nature of language to the vital, and afterwards
to the intellectual, principle in man, they were
by no means the only possible names. We speak,
for instance, of the <emph>shades</emph> of the departed, which
meant originally their shadows. Those who first introduced
this expression&mdash;and we find it in the
most distant parts of the world<note place='foot'>See E. B. Tylor,
<hi rend='italic'>Fortnightly Review</hi>, 1866, p. 74.</note>&mdash;evidently took the
shadow as the nearest approach to what they wished
to express; something that should be incorporeal,
yet closely connected with the body. The Greek
εἰδῶλον, too, is not much more than the shadow,
while the Latin <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>manes</foreign>
meant probably in the beginning no more than the Little Ones,
the Small Folk.<note place='foot'><foreign rend='italic'>Im-manis</foreign>,
originally <q>not small,</q> came to mean enormous or monstrous.
See Preller, <hi rend='italic'>Römische Mythologie</hi>, p. 72
<hi rend='italic'>seq.</hi></note>
But the curious part, as showing again the influence
of language on thought, an influence more powerful
even than the evidence of the senses, is this, that
people who speak of the life or soul as the shadow of
the body, have brought themselves to believe that a
dead body casts no shadow, because the shadow has
departed from it; that it becomes, in fact, a kind of
Peter Schlemihl.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Unkulunkulu;
or the Tradition of Creation as existing among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa</hi>, by the Rev. J. Callaway, M.
D. Natal, 1868. Part I. p. 91.</note>
</p>

<p>
Let us now return to mythology in the narrower
sense of the word. One of the earliest objects that
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
would strike and stir the mind of man, and for which
a sign or a name would soon be wanted, is surely the
Sun. It is very hard for us to realize the feelings
with which the first dwellers on the earth looked
upon the sun, or to understand fully what they
meant by a morning prayer, or a morning sacrifice.
Perhaps there are few people here present who have
watched a sunrise more than once or twice in their
lives; few people who have ever known the true
meaning of a morning prayer, or a morning sacrifice.
But think of man at the very dawn of time: forget
for a moment, if you can, after having read the fascinating
pages of Mr. Darwin, forget what man is supposed
to have been before he was man; forget it, because
it does not concern us here whether his bodily
form and frame were developed once for all in the
mind of a Creator, or gradually in the creation itself,
which from the first monad or protoplasm to the last
of the primates, or man, is not, I suppose, to be
looked on as altogether causeless, meaningless, purposeless;
think of him only as man (and man means
the thinker), with his mind yet lying fallow, though
full of germs&mdash;germs of which I hold as strongly as
ever no trace has ever, no trace will ever, be discovered
anywhere but in man; think of the Sun
awakening the eyes of man from sleep, and his mind
from slumber! Was not the Sunrise to him the
first wonder, the first beginning of all reflection, all
thought, all philosophy? was it not to him the first
revelation, the first beginning of all trust, of all religion?
To us that wonder of wonders has ceased to
exist, and few men now would even venture to speak
of the sun as Sir John Herschel has spoken, calling
him <q>the Almoner of the Almighty, the delegated
<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>
dispenser to us of light and warmth, as well as the
centre of attraction, and as such, the immediate
source of all our comforts, and, indeed, of the very
possibility of our existence on earth.</q><note place='foot'>See
J. Samuelson, <hi rend='italic'>Views of the Deity, Traditional and Scientific</hi>, p.
144. Williams &amp; Norgate, 1871.</note>
</p>

<p>
Man is a creature of habit, and wherever we can
watch him, we find that before a few generations
have passed he has lost the power of admiring what
is regular, and that he can see signs and wonders
only in what is irregular. Few nations only have
preserved in their ancient poetry some remnants of
the natural awe with which the earliest dwellers on
the earth saw that brilliant being slowly rising from
out the darkness of the night, raising itself by its
own might higher and higher, till it stood triumphant
on the arch of heaven, and then descended and
sank down in its fiery glory into the dark abyss of
the heaving and hissing sea. In the hymns of the
Veda the poet still wonders whether the sun will rise
again; he asks how he can climb the vault of heaven?
why he does not fall back? why there is no dust on
his path? And when the rays of the morning rouse
him from sleep and call him back to new life; when
he sees the sun, as he says, stretching out his golden
arms to bless the world and rescue it from the terrors
of darkness, he exclaims, <q>Arise, our life, our spirit
has come back! the darkness is gone, the light approaches!</q>
</p>

<p>
For so prominent an object in the primeval picture-gallery
of the human mind, a sign or a name
must have been wanted at a very early period. But
how was this to be achieved? As a mere sign, a
circle would have been sufficient, such as we find in
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
the hieroglyphics of Egypt, in the graphic system of
China, or even in our own astronomical tables. If
such a sign was fixed upon, we have a beginning of
language in the widest sense of the word, for we have
brought the Sun under the general concept of roundness,
and we have found a sign for this concept which
is made up of a large number of single sensuous impressions.
With such definite signs mythology has
little chance; yet the mere fact that the sun was
represented as a circle would favor the idea that the
sun was round; or, as ancient people, who had no adjective as yet
for round or <foreign rend='italic'>rotundus</foreign>,<note place='foot'><q>It
has already been implied that the Aborigines of Tasmania had
acquired very limited powers of abstraction or generalization. They possessed
no words representing abstract ideas; for each variety of gum-tree
and wattle-tree, etc., etc., they had a name, but they had no equivalent
for the expression, <q>a tree;</q> neither could they express abstract qualities,
such as hard, soft, warm, cold, long, short, round, etc.; for <q>hard</q> they
would say <q>like a stone;</q> for <q>tall</q> they would say <q>long legs,</q> etc.; for
<q>round</q> they said <q>like a ball,</q> <q>like the moon,</q> and so on, usually
suiting the action to the word, and confirming by some sign the meaning to be
understood.</q> Milligan, <hi rend='italic'>Vocabulary of the Dialects of some of the
Aboriginal Tribes of Tasmania</hi>, p. 34. Hobart Town, 1866.</note> would say,
that the sun was a wheel, a <foreign rend='italic'>rota</foreign>. If, on the contrary,
the round sign reminded the people of an eye,
then the sign of the sun would soon become the eye
of heaven, and germs of mythology would spring up
even from the barren soil of such hieroglyphic language.
</p>

<p>
But now, suppose that a real name was wanted
for the sun, how could that be achieved?
</p>

<p>
We know that all words are derived from roots,
that these roots express general concepts, and that,
with few exceptions, every name is founded on a
general concept under which the object that has to
be named can be ranged. How these roots came to
be, is a question into which we need not enter at
<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>
present. Their origin and growth form a problem of
psychology rather than of philology, and each science
must keep within its proper bounds. If a name was
wanted for snow, the early framers of language singled
out one of the general predicates of snow, its
whiteness, its coldness, or its liquidity, and called the
snow the white, the cold, or the liquid, by means of
roots conveying the general idea of whiteness, coldness,
or liquidity. Not only Nix, nivis, but Niobe<note place='foot'>If Signer
Ascoli blames me for deriving <hi rend='italic'>Niobe</hi> with other names for
snow from the root <hi rend='italic'>snu</hi>, instead of from the root
<hi rend='italic'>snigh</hi>, this can only be
due to an oversight. I am responsible for the derivation of Niobe, and
for the admission of a secondary root <hi rend='italic'>snyu</hi> or
<hi rend='italic'>nyu</hi>, and so far I may be either right or wrong. But Signer
Ascoli ought to have known that the derivation of Gothic
<foreign rend='italic'>snáiv-s</foreign>, Old High-German
<foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>snéo</foreign>, or
<foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>snê</foreign>, gen.
<foreign rend='italic'>snêwê-s</foreign>,
Lithuanian <foreign rend='italic'>snèga-s</foreign>, Slav,
<foreign rend='italic'>snjeg</foreign>, Hib. <foreign rend='italic'>sneachd</foreign>,
from the root <foreign rend='italic'>snu</foreign>, rests on
the authority of Bopp (<hi rend='italic'>Glossarium</hi>, 1847, s. v. snu; see also Grimm,
<hi rend='italic'>Deutsche Grammatik</hi>, ii. p. 700). He ought likewise to have known
that in 1852 Professor Schweizer-Siedler, in his review of Bötticher's
<hi rend='italic'>Arica</hi> (Kuhn's <hi rend='italic'>Zeitschrift</hi>, i. p. 479), had
pointed out that <hi rend='italic'>snigh</hi> may be considered
as a secondary root by the side of <hi rend='italic'>snu</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>snâ</hi> (cf. σμάω, σμήχω; ψάω, ψήχω; νάω, νήχω). The real relation
of <hi rend='italic'>snu</hi> to <hi rend='italic'>snigh</hi> had been explained as
early as 1842 by Benfey, <hi rend='italic'>Wurzellexicon</hi>, ii. p. 54; and
Signor Ascoli was no doubt aware of what Professor Curtius had written on the relation of
<hi rend='italic'>snigh</hi> to <hi rend='italic'>snu</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>Grundzüge
der Greichischen Etymologie</hi>, p. 297). Signor
Ascoli has certainly shown with greater minuteness than his predecessors
that not only Zend <foreign rend='italic'>snizh</foreign> and Lithuanian
<foreign rend='italic'>snêga-s</foreign>, but likewise Gothic
<foreign rend='italic'>snaiv-s</foreign>, Greek νίφει, Latin nix, nĭv-is, and ninguis,
may be derived from <hi rend='italic'>snigh</hi>; but if from
<hi rend='italic'>snigh</hi>, a secondary development of the root
<hi rend='italic'>snu</hi>, we can arrive at νίφ-α and at νίβα, the other steps that
lead on to Niobe will remain just the same.</note>
too, was a name of the snow, and meant the melting;
the death of her beautiful children by the arrows of
Apollon and Artemis represents the destruction of
winter by the rays of the sun. If the sun itself was
to be named, it might be called the brilliant, the
awakener, the runner, the ruler, the father, the giver
of warmth, of fertility, of life, the scorcher, the destroyer,
the messenger of death, and many other
names; but there was no possibility of naming it,
<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>
except by laying hold of one of its characteristic
features, and expressing that feature by means of
one of the conceptual or predicative roots.
</p>

<p>
Let us trace the history of at least one of these
names. Before the Aryan nations separated, before
there was a Latin, a Greek, or a Sanskrit language,
there existed a root <hi rend='italic'>svar</hi> or <hi rend='italic'>sval</hi>,
which meant to beam, to glitter, to warm. It exists in Greek, σέλας,
splendor; σελήνη, moon; in Anglo-Saxon, as <foreign rend='italic'>swélan</foreign>,
to burn, to sweal; in modern German, <foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>schwül</foreign>,
oppressively hot. From it we have in Sanskrit the
noun <foreign rend='italic'>svar</foreign>, meaning sometimes the sky, sometimes
the sun; and exactly the same word has been preserved
in Latin, as <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>sol</foreign>; in Gothic as
<foreign rend='italic'>sauil</foreign>; in Anglo-Saxon,
as <foreign rend='italic'>sol</foreign>. A secondary form of <hi rend='italic'>svar</hi>
is the Sanskrit <foreign rend='italic'>sûrya</foreign> for
<hi rend='italic'>svârya</hi>, the sun, which is the same
word as the Greek ἥλιος.
</p>

<p>
All these names were originally mere predicates;
they meant bright, brilliant, warm. But as soon as
the name <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>svar</foreign> or
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>sûrya</foreign> was formed,
it became, through the irresistible influence of language, the name, not
only of a living, but of a male being. Every noun in
Sanskrit must be either a masculine or a feminine
(for the neuter gender was originally confined to the
nominative case), and as <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>sûrya</foreign> had been formed
as a masculine, language stamped it once for all as the
sign of a male being, as much as if it had been the
name of a warrior or a king. In other languages
where the name for sun is a feminine, and the sun is
accordingly conceived as a woman, as a queen, as the
bride of the moon, the whole mythology of the love-making
of the heavenly bodies is changed.
</p>

<p>
You may say that all this shows, not so much the
influence of language on thought, as of thought on
<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>
language; and that the sexual character of all words
reflects only the peculiarities of a child's mind, which
can conceive of nothing except as living, as male or
female. If a child hurts itself against a chair, it
beats and scolds the chair. The chair is looked upon
not as <emph>it</emph>, but as <emph>he</emph>; it is the naughty chair, quite
as much as a boy is a naughty boy. There is some
truth in this, but it only serves to confirm the right
view of the influence of language on thought; for
this tendency, though in its origin intentional, and
therefore the result of thought, became soon a mere
rule of tradition in language, and it then reacted on
the mind with irresistible power. As soon, in fact,
as <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>sûryas</foreign> or ἥλιος appears as a masculine, we
are in the very thick of mythology. We have not yet arrived
at Helios as a god&mdash;that is a much later stage
of thought, which we might describe almost in the
words of Plato at the beginning of the seventh book
of the <q>Republic,</q> <q>And after this, he will reason
that the sun is he who gives the seasons and the years,
and is the guardian of all that is in the visible world,
and in a certain way the cause of all things which
he and his fellows have been accustomed to behold.</q>
We have not yet advanced so far, but we have
reached at least the first germs of a myth. In the
Homeric hymn to Helios, Helios is not yet called an
immortal, but only ἐπιείκελος ἀθανάτοισι, like unto immortals,
yet he is called the child of Euryphaessa, the
son of Hyperion, the grandson of Uranos and Gæa.<note place='foot'><p>At
the end of the hymn the poet says:&mdash;
</p>
<p>
χαῖρε, ἄναξ, πρόφρων δὲ βίον θυμήρε᾽ ὄπαζε;<lb/>
ἐκ σέο δ᾽ ἀρξάμενος κλῄσω μερόπων γένος ἀνδρῶν<lb/>
ἡμιθέων, ὦν ἔργα θεοὶ θνητοῖσιν ἔδειξαν.
</p>
<p>
This would seem to imply that the poet looked upon Helios as a half-god,
almost as a hero, who had once lived on earth.</p></note>
</p>

<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>

<p>
All this is mythology; it is ancient language going
beyond its first intention.
</p>

<p>
Nor is there much difficulty in interpreting this
myth. Helios, the sun, is called the son of Hyperīon,
sometimes Hyperīon himself. This name Hyperīon
is derived from the preposition ὑπέρ, the Latin
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>super</foreign>,
which means above. It is derived by means of the
suffix -ιων, which originally was not a patronymic, but
simply expressed belonging to. So if Helios was
called Hyperion, this simply meant he who dwells
on high, and corresponds to Latin <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Summanus</foreign> or
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Superior</foreign>, or
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Excelsior</foreign>. If, on the contrary, Helios
is called Hyperionides, this, too, which meant originally
no more than he who comes from, or belongs
to those who dwell on high,<note place='foot'>Corssen,
<hi rend='italic'>Ueber Steigerungsendungen</hi>, Kuhn's
<hi rend='italic'>Zeitschrift</hi>, iii. p. 299.</note> led to the myth that he
was the descendant of Hyperion; so that in this case,
as in the case of Zeus Kronīon, the son really led to
the conception of his father. Zeus Kronīon meant
originally no more than Zeus the eternal, the god of
ages, the ancient of days; but -ιων becoming usual as
a patronymic suffix, Kronion was supposed to mean
the son of Kronos. Kronos, the father, was created
in order to account for the existence of the name
Kronion. If Hyperīon is called the son of Euryphaessa,
the wide-shining, this requires no commentary;
for even at present a poet might say that the
sun is born of the wide-shining dawn. You see the
spontaneous generation of mythology with every new
name that is formed. As not only the sun, but also
the moon and the dawn could be called dwellers on
high, they, too, took the name of Hyperionis or
Hyperionides; and hence Homer called Selene, the
Moon, and Eos, the Dawn, sisters of Helios, and
<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>
daughters of Hyperion and Euryphaessa, the Dawn
doing service twice, both as mother, Euryphaessa,
and as daughter, Eos. Nay, according to Homer,
Euryphaessa, the Dawn, is not only the wife, but
also the sister of Helios. All this is perfectly intelligible,
if we watch the growth of language and mythology;
but it leads, of course, to the most tragic
catastrophes as soon as it is all taken in a literal
sense.
</p>

<p>
Helios is called ἀκάμας, the never-tiring; πανδερκής,
the all-seeing; φαέθων, the shining; and also φοῖβος,
the brilliant. This last epithet φοῖβος has grown into
an independent deity Phœbus, and it is particularly
known as a name of Apollon, Phoibos Apollon; thus
showing what is also known from other sources, that
in Apollo, too, we have one of the many mythic disguises
of the sun.
</p>

<p>
So far all is clear, because all the names which we
have to deal with are intelligible, or, at all events,
yield to the softest etymological pressure. But now if
we hear the story of Phoibos Apollon falling in love
with Daphne, and Daphne praying to her mother, the
Earth, to save her from Phoibos; and if we read how
either the earth received her in her lap, and then a
laurel tree sprang up where she had disappeared, or
how she herself was changed into a laurel tree, what
shall we think of this? It is a mere story, it might
be said, and why should there be any meaning in it?
My answer is, because people do not tell such stories
of their gods and heroes, unless there is some sense in
them. Besides, if Phoibos means the sun, why
should not Daphne have a meaning too? Before,
therefore, we can decide whether the story of Phoibos
and Daphne is a mere invention, we must try to find
<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>
out what can have been the meaning of the word
Daphne.
</p>

<p>
In Greek it means a laurel,<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Selected Essays</hi>, vol. i. p. 399.</note> and this would explain
the purely Greek legend that Daphne was changed
into a laurel tree. But who was Daphne? In order
to answer this question, we must have recourse to
etymology, or, in other words, we must examine the
history of the word. Etymology, as you know, is no
longer what it used to be; and though there may still
be a classical scholar here and there who crosses himself
at the idea of a Greek word being explained by a
reference to Sanskrit, we naturally look to Sanskrit
as the master-key to many a lock which no Greek key
will open. Now Daphne, as I have shown, can be
traced back to Sanskrit Ahanâ, and Ahanâ in Sanskrit
means the dawn. As soon as we know this,
everything becomes clear. The story of Phoibos and
Daphne is no more than a description of what every
one may see every day; first, the appearance of the
Dawn in the eastern sky, then the rising of the Sun
as if hurrying after his bride, then the gradual fading
away of the bright Dawn at the touch of the fiery
rays of the sun, and at last her death or disappearance
in the lap of her mother, the Earth. All this seems
to me as clear as daylight, and the only objection
that could be raised against this reading of the ancient
myth would be, if it could be proved, that
Ahanâ does not mean Dawn, and that Daphne cannot
be traced back to Ahanâ, or that <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Helios</foreign> does
not mean the Sun.
</p>

<p>
I know there is another objection, but it seems to
me so groundless as hardly to deserve an answer.
Why, it is asked, should the ancient nations have told
<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>
these endless stories about the Sun and the Dawn,
and why should they have preserved them in their
mythology? We might as well ask why the ancient
nations should have invented so many irregular verbs,
and why they should have preserved them in their
grammar. A fact does not cease to be a fact, because
we cannot at once explain it. As far as our knowledge
goes at present, we are justified in stating that
the Aryan nations preserved not only their grammatical
structure, and a large portion of their dictionary,
from the time which preceded their separation, but
that they likewise retained the names of some of their
deities, some legends about their gods, some popular
sayings and proverbs, and in these, it may be, the
seeds of parables, as part of their common Aryan
heirloom. Their mythological lore fills, in fact, a
period in the history of Aryan thought, half-way
between the period of language and the period of
literature, and it is this discovery which gives to mythology
its importance in the eyes of the student of
the most ancient history and psychology of mankind.
</p>

<p>
And do not suppose that the Greeks, or the Hindus,
or the Aryan nations in general, were the only
people who possessed such tales. Wherever we look,
in every part of the world, among uncivilized as well
as a civilized people, we find the same kind of stories,
the same traditions, the same myths.
</p>

<p>
I shall give one story from the extreme North,
another from the extreme South.
</p>

<p>
Among the Esquimaux of Repulse Bay, on the
west side of Hudson's Bay, on the Arctic Circle,
Mr. John Rae picked up the following story:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Many years ago, a great Esquimaux Conqueror
<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>
gained so much power that he was able to rise unto
the heavens, taking with him on one occasion a sister,
a very beautiful girl, and some fire. He added much
fuel to the fire, and thus formed the Sun. For some
time he and his sister lived in great harmony, but
after a time he became very cruel, and ill-treated his
sister in many ways. She bore it at first with great
patience, until at last he threw fire at her, and
scorched one side of her face. This spoiling of her
beauty was beyond endurance; she therefore ran
away from him, and formed the Moon. Her brother
then began, and still continues to chase her; but although
he sometimes got near, he has not yet overtaken
her, nor ever will.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>When it is New Moon, the burnt side of the face
is towards us; at Full Moon it is the reverse.</q>
</p>

<p>
There are dialectic varieties in the Mythology of
the Esquimaux as of the Greeks and Hindus, and,
with a change of gender between Sun and Moon, the
same story occurs among other tribes in the following
form:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>There was a girl at a party, and some one told
his love for her by shaking her shoulders, after the
manner of the country. She could not see who it
was in the dark hut, so she smeared her hands with
soot, and when he came back she blackened his
cheek with her hand. When a light was brought
she saw that it was her brother and fled. He ran
after her, followed her, and as she came to the end
of the earth, he sprang out into the sky. Then she
became the sun, and he the moon, and this is why
the moon is always chasing the sun through the
heavens, and why the moon is sometimes dark as he
turns his blackened cheek towards the earth.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>The
Childhood of the World</hi>, by E. Clodd, p. 62.</note>
</p>

<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>

<p>
We now turn to the South, and here, among the
lowest of the low, among the Hottentots, who are
despised even by their black neighbors, the Zulus,
we find the following gem of a fable, beaming with
mingled rays of religion and philosophy:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>The Moon, it is said, sent once an insect to men,
saying, <q>Go thou to men, and tell them, As I die,
and dying live, so ye shall also die, and dying live.</q>
The insect started with the message, but whilst on
his way was overtaken by the hare, who asked:
<q>On what errand art thou bound?</q> The insect
answered, <q>I am sent by the Moon to men, to tell
them that as she dies and dying lives, they also shall
die and dying live.</q> The hare said, <q>As thou art
an awkward runner, let me go</q> (to take the message).
With these words he ran off, and when he
reached men, he said, <q>I am sent by the Moon to
tell you, As I die, and dying perish, in the same
manner ye also shall die and come wholly to an end.</q>
Then the hare returned to the Moon, and told her
what he had said to men. The Moon reproached
him angrily, saying, <q>Darest thou tell the people a
thing which I have not said?</q> With these words
she took up a piece of wood, and struck him on the
nose. Since that day the hare's nose is slit.</q>
</p>

<p>
Of this story, too, there are various versions and
in one of them the end is as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>The hare, having returned to the Moon, was
questioned as to the message delivered, and the
Moon, having heard the true state of the case, became
so enraged with him that she took up a hatchet
to split his head; falling short, however, of that, the
hatchet fell upon the upper lip of the hare, and cut
it severely. Hence it is that we see the <q>hare-lip.</q>
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
The hare, being duly incensed at having received
such treatment, raised his claws, and scratched the
Moon's face; and the dark parts which we now see
on the surface of the Moon are the scars which she
received on that occasion.</q><note place='foot'><p><hi rend='italic'>Reynard
the Fox in South Africa, or Hottentot Fables and Tales</hi>, by
W. H. I. Bleek, 1864, p. 69. Dr. Theophilus Hahn, <hi rend='italic'>Die Sprache der
Nama</hi>, 1870, p. 59. As a curious coincidence, it may be mentioned that in
Sanskrit, too, the Moon is called <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>sasāanka</foreign>,
<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> <q>having the marks of a
hare,</q> the black marks in the moon being taken for the likeness of the
hare. Another coincidence is that the Namaqua Hottentots will not touch
hare's flesh (see Sir James E. Alexander's <hi rend='italic'>Expedition of Discovery into
the Interior of Africa</hi>, vol. i. p. 269), because the hare deceived men,
while the Jews abstain from it, because the hare is supposed to chew the
cud (Lev. xi. 6).
</p>
<p>
A similar tradition on the meaning of death occurs among the Zulus,
but as they do not know of the Moon as a deity, the message that men are
not to die, or that they are to die, is sent there by Unkulunkulu, the ancestor
of the human race, and thus the whole story loses its point. See Dr.
Callaway, <hi rend='italic'>Unkulunkulu</hi>, p. 4; and Gray,
<hi rend='italic'>Polynesian Mythology</hi>, pp. 16-58.</p></note>
</p>

<p>
The Finns, Lapps, and Esthonians do not seem a
very poetical race, yet there is poetry even in their
smoky huts, poetry surrounded with all the splendor
of an arctic night, and fragrant with the perfume
of moss and wild flowers. Here is one of their
legends:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>Wanna Issi had two servants, Koit and Ämmarik,
and he gave them a torch which Koit should
light every morning, and Ämmarik should extinguish
in the evening. In order to reward their faithful
services, Wanna Issi told them they might be man
and wife, but they asked Wanna Issi that he would
allow them to remain forever bride and bridegroom.
Wanna Issi assented, and henceforth Koit handed
the torch every evening to Ämmarik, and Ämmarik
took it and extinguished it. Only during four
weeks in summer they remain together at midnight;
<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>
Koit hands the dying torch to Ämmarik, but Ämmarik
does not let it die, but lights it again with her
breath. Then their hands are stretched out, and
their lips meet, and the blush of the face of Ämmarik
colors the midnight sky.</q>
</p>

<p>
This myth requires hardly any commentary; yet
as long as it is impossible to explain the names,
Wanna Issi, Koit, and Ämmarik, it might be said
that the story was but a love story, invented by an
idle Lapp, or Finn, or Esthonian. But what if Wanna
Issi in Esthonian means the Old Father, and if Koit
means the Dawn? Can we then doubt any longer
that Ämmarik<note place='foot'>According to a letter
just received from an Esthonian lady, <foreign rend='italic'>ämmarik</foreign>
does mean the gloaming in the language of the common people of Esthonia.
Bertram (<hi rend='italic'>Ilmatar</hi>, Dorpat, 1870, p. 265) remarks that
<foreign rend='italic'>Koit</foreign> is the dawn, <foreign rend='italic'>Koido
täht,</foreign> the morning-star, also called <foreign rend='italic'>eha täht</foreign>.
<foreign rend='italic'>Ämarik</foreign>, the ordinary
name for the dawn, is used as the name for the evening twilight, or the
gloaming in the well-known story, published by Fählmann (<hi rend='italic'>Verhandlungen
der gelehrten Estnischen Gesellschaft zu Dorpat</hi>, vol. i.) In Finnish
<foreign rend='italic'>hämära</foreign> is twilight in general.</note>
must be the Gloaming and that
their meeting in the summer reflects those summer
evenings when, particularly in the North, the torch
of the sun seems never to die, and when the Gloaming
is seen kissing the Dawn?
</p>

<p>
I wish I could tell you some more of these stories
which have been gathered from all parts of the world,
and which, though they may be pronounced childish
and tedious by some critics, seem to me to glitter
with the brightest dew of nature's own poetry, and
to contain those very touches that make us feel akin,
not only with Homer or Shakespeare, but even with
Lapps, and Finns, and Kaffirs.
</p>

<p>
I cannot resist, however, the temptation of inserting
here a poetical rendering of the story of Koit
and Ämmarik, sent to me from the New World, remarking
<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>
only that instead of Lapland, Esthonia is
really the country that may claim the original story.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
A LEGEND OF LAPLAND.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Two servants were in Wanna Issi's pay;</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>A blazing torch their care;</l>
<l>Each morning Koit must light it till its ray</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Flamed through the air;</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>And every evening Ämmarik's fair hand</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Must quench the waning light;</l>
<l>Then over all the weary, waiting land</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Fell the still night.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>So passed the time; then Wanna Issi said,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='pre'>For faithful service done,</q></l>
<l>Lo, here reward! To-morrow shall ye wed,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>And so be one.</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'><q>Not so,</q> said Koit; <q rend='pre'>for sweeter far to me</q></q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The joy that neareth still;</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Then grant us ever fast betrothed to be.</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>They had their will.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>And now the blazing lustre to transfer</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Himself, is all his claim;</l>
<l>Warm from her lover's hand it comes to her,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To quench the flame.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Only for four times seven lengthening days,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>At midnight, do they stand</l>
<l>Together, while Koit gives the dying blaze</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To Ämmarik's hand.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>O wonder then! She lets it not expire,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>But lights it with her breath&mdash;</l>
<l>The breath of love, that, warm with quickening fire,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Wakes life from death.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Then hands stretch out, and touch, and clasp on high,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Then lip to lip is pressed,</l>
<l>And Ämmarik's blushes tinge the midnight sky</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>From east to west.</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='smallcaps'>Anna C. Brackett.</hi></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
If people cannot bring themselves to believe in
<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>
solar and celestial myths among the Hindus and
Greeks, let them study the folk-lore of the Semitic
and Turanian races. I know there is, on the part of
some of our most distinguished scholars, the same
objection against comparing Aryan to non-Aryan
myths, as there is against any attempt to explain
the features of Sanskrit or Greek by a reference to
Finnish or Bask. In one sense that objection is well
founded, for nothing would create greater confusion
than to ignore the genealogical principle as the only
safe one in a scientific classification of languages, of
myths, and even of customs. We must first classify
our myths and legends, as we classify our languages
and dialects. We must first of all endeavor to explain
what wants explanation in one member of a
family by a reference to other members of the same
family, before we allow ourselves to glance beyond.
But there is in a comparative study of languages and
myths not only a philological, but also a philosophical,
and, more particularly, a psychological interest, and
though even in this more general study of mankind
the frontiers of language and race ought never to disappear,
yet they can no longer be allowed to narrow
or intercept our view. How much the student of
Aryan mythology and ethnology may gain for his
own progress by allowing himself a wider survey over
the traditions and customs of the whole human race,
is best known to those who have studied the works of
Klemm, Waitz, Bastian, Sir John Lubbock, Mr. Tylor,
and Dr. Callaway. What is prehistoric in language
among the Aryan nations, is frequently found
as still historic among Turanian races. The same
applies with regard to religions, myths, legends, and
customs. Among Finns and Lapps, among Zulus
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
and Maoris, among Khonds and Karens, we sometimes
find the most startling analogies to Aryan traditions,
and we certainly learn, again and again, this
one important lesson, that as in language, so in
mythology, there is nothing which had not originally
a meaning, that every name of the gods and heroes
had a beginning, a purpose, and a history.
</p>

<p>
Jupiter was no more called Jupiter by accident,
than the Polynesian <foreign rend='italic'>Maui</foreign>, the Samoyede
<foreign rend='italic'>Num</foreign>, or the
Chinese <foreign rend='italic'>Tien</foreign>.<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Lectures on the Science of Religion</hi>, pp. 194, 200.</note>
If we can discover the original meaning
of these names, we have reached the first ground
of their later growth. I do not say that, if we can
explain the first purpose of the mythological names,
we have solved the whole riddle of mythology, but I
maintain that we have gained firm ground. I maintain
that every true etymology gives us an historical
fact, because the first giving of a name was an historical
fact, and an historical fact of the greatest importance
for the later development of ancient ideas.
Think only of this one fact, which no one would now
venture to doubt, that the supreme deity of the
Greeks, the Romans, the Germans, is called by the
same name as the supreme deity of the earliest Aryan
settlers in India. Does not this one fact draw away
the curtain from the dark ages of antiquity, and open
before our eyes an horizon which we can hardly measure
by years? The Greek <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Zeus</foreign> is the same word as
the Latin <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Ju</foreign> in
<hi rend='italic'>Jupiter</hi>, as the German
<foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>Tiu</foreign>; and all
these were merely dialectic varieties of the Vedic
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Dyaus</foreign>.<note place='foot'>See my
<hi rend='italic'>Lectures on the Science of Language</hi> (10th ed.), vol. ii. p
468.</note> Now <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>dyaus</foreign> in Sanskrit is the name
of the sky, if used as a feminine; if used as a masculine,
<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>
as it is still in the Veda, it is the sky as a man or as
a god&mdash;it is Zeus, the father of gods and men. You
know, of course, that the whole language of ancient
India is but a sister dialect of Greek, Latin, of German,
Keltic, and Slavonic, and that if the Greek says
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>es-ti</foreign>, he is, if the Roman says
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>est</foreign>, the German
<foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>ist</foreign>, the
Slave <foreign rend='italic'>yesté</foreign>, the Hindu, three thousand years ago,
said <foreign rend='italic'>as-ti</foreign>, he is. This
<foreign rend='italic'>as-ti</foreign> is a compound of a root
<foreign rend='italic'>as</foreign>, to be, and the pronoun
<foreign rend='italic'>ti</foreign>. The root meant originally
<hi rend='italic'>to breathe</hi>, and dwindled down after a time to
the meaning of <hi rend='italic'>to be</hi>. All this must have happened
before a single Greek or German reached the shores
of Europe, and before a single Brahman descended
into the plains of India. At that distant time we
must place the gradual growth of language and ideas,
of a language which we are still speaking, of ideas
which we are still thinking; and at the same time
only can we explain the framing of those names
which were the first attempts at grasping supernatural
powers, which became in time the names of the
deities of the ancient world, the heroes of mythology,
the chief actors in many a legend, nay, some of
which have survived in the nursery tales of our own
time.<note place='foot'>See a most interesting essay,
<hi rend='italic'>Le Petit Poucet</hi> (Tom Thumb), by Gaston
Paris.</note>
</p>

<p>
My time, I see, is nearly over, but before I finish,
I feel that I have a duty to perform from which I
ought not to shrink. Some of those who have honored
me with their presence to-night may recollect
that about a year ago a lecture was delivered in this
very room by Professor Blackie, in which he tried to
throw discredit on the scientific method of the interpretation
of popular myths, or on what I call Comparative
<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>
Mythology. Had he confined his remarks
to the subject itself, I should have felt most grateful
for his criticisms, little minding the manner in which
they were conveyed&mdash;for a student of language
knows what words are made of. Nor, had his personal
reflections concerned myself alone, should I have
felt called upon to reply to them thus publicly, for it
has always seemed to me that unless we protest
against unmerited praise, we have no right to protest
against unmerited abuse. I believe I can appeal to
all here present, that during the many years I have
had the honor to lecture in this Institution, I have
<emph>not once</emph> allowed myself to indulge in any personal
remarks, or attacked those who, being absent, cannot
defend themselves. Even when I had to answer objections,
or to refute false theories, I have always
most carefully avoided mentioning the names of living
writers. But as Professor Blackie has directed
his random blows, not against myself, but against a
friend of mine, Mr. Cox, the author of a work on
Aryan Mythology, I feel that I must for once try
to get angry, and return blow for blow. Professor
Blackie speaks of Mr. Cox as if he had done nothing
beyond repeating what I had said before. Nothing
can be more unfair. My own work in Comparative
Mythology has consisted chiefly in laying down some
of the general principles of that science, and in the
etymological interpretation of some of the ancient
names of gods, goddesses, and heroes. In fact, I have
made it a rule never to interpret or to compare the
legends of India, Greece, Italy, or Germany, except
in cases where it was possible, first of all, to show an
identity or similarity in the Sanskrit, Greek, Latin,
or German names of the principal actors. Mr. Cox
<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>
having convinced himself that the method which I
have followed in mythology rests on sound and truly
scientific principles, has adopted most, though by no
means all, of my etymological interpretations. Professor
Blackie, on the contrary, without attempting
any explanation of the identity of mythological names
in Greek and Sanskrit which must be either disproved
or explained, thunders forth the following sentence
of condemnation: <q>Even under the scientific guidance
of a Bopp, a Bott, a Grimm, and a Müller, a
sober man may sometimes, even in the full blaze of
the new sun of comparative philology, allow himself
to drink deep draughts, if not of <emph>maundering madness</emph>,
at least of <emph>manifest hallucination</emph>.</q>
</p>

<p>
If such words are thrown at my head, I pick them
up chiefly as etymological curiosities, and as striking
illustrations of what Mr. Tylor calls <q>survivals in
culture,</q> showing how the most primitive implements
of warfare, rude stones and unpolished flints, which
an ethnologist would suppose to be confined to prehistoric
races, to the red Indians of America or the
wild Picts of Caledonia, turn up again most unexpectedly
at the present day in the very centre of civilized
life. All I can say is, that if, as a student of
Comparative Mythology, I have been drinking deep
draughts of maundering madness, I have been drinking
in good company. In this respect Mr. Cox has
certainly given me far more credit than I deserve. I
am but one out of many laborers in this rich field of
scientific research, and he ought to have given far
greater prominence to the labors of Grimm, Burnouf,
Bopp, and, before all, of my learned friend, Professor
Kuhn.
</p>

<p>
But while, with regard to etymology, Mr. Cox contents
<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>
himself with reporting the results of other scholars,
he stands quite independent in his own treatment
of Comparative Mythology. Of this Professor Blackie
seems to have no suspicion whatever. The plan which
Mr. Cox follows is to collect the coincidences in the
legends themselves, and to show how in different
myths the same story with slight variations is told
again and again of different gods and heroes. In this
respect his work is entirely original and very useful;
for although these coincidences may be explained in
different ways, and do not afford a proof of a common
historical origin of the mythologies of India, Greece,
Italy, and Germany, they are all the more interesting
from a purely psychological point of view, and supply
important material for further researches. Mr. Tylor
has lately worked with great success in the same rich
mine; extending the limits of mythological research
far beyond the precincts of the Aryan world, and
showing that there are solar myths wherever the sun
shines. I differ from Mr. Cox on many points, as he
differs from me. I shall certainly keep to my own
method of never attempting an interpretation or a
comparison, except where the ground has first been
cleared of all uncertainty by etymological research,
and where the names of different gods and heroes
have been traced back to a common source. I call this
the <hi rend='italic'>nominalistic</hi> as opposed to the
<hi rend='italic'>realistic</hi> method of
Comparative Mythology, and it is the former only
that concerns the student of the Science of Language.
I gratefully acknowledge, however, the help which I
have received from Mr. Cox's work, particularly as
suggesting new clusters of myths that might be disentangled
by etymological analysis.
</p>

<p>
But not only has Professor Blackie failed to perceive
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
the real character of Mr. Cox's researches, but
he has actually charged him with holding opinions
which both Mr. Cox and myself have repeatedly disavowed,
and most strenuously opposed. Again and
again have we warned the students of Comparative
Mythology that they must not expect to be able to
explain everything. Again and again have we pointed
out that there are irrational elements in mythology,
and that we must be prepared to find grains of local
history on which, as I said,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Selected Essays</hi>,
vol. i. p. 478: <q>Here then we see that mythology
does not always create its own heroes, but that it lays hold of real history,
and coils itself round it so closely that it is difficult, nay, almost impossible,
to separate the ivy from the oak, the lichen from the granite to which
it clings. And here is a lesson which comparative mythologists ought not
to neglect. They are naturally bent on explaining everything that can be
explained; but they should bear in mind that there may be elements in
every mythological riddle which resist etymological analysis, for the simple
reason that their origin was not etymological, but historical.</q></note>
the sharpest tools of
Comparative Mythology must bend or break. Again and again have we shown that
historical persons<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Lectures on
the Science of Language</hi>, vol. ii. p. 581.</note>&mdash;not
only Cyrus and Charlemagne, but Frederick Barbarossa
and even Frederick the Great&mdash;have been
drawn into the vortex of popular mythology. Yet
these are the words of Professor Blackie: <q>The cool
way in which Max Müller and his English disciple,
Mr. Cox, assume that there are no human figures and
historical characters in the whole gallery of heroes
and demi-gods in the Greek Mythology, is something
very remarkable.</q>
</p>

<p>
I readily admit that some of the etymologies which
I have proposed of mythological names are open to
criticism; and if, like other scholars, Professor Blackie
had pointed out to me any cases where I might seem
to him to have offended against Grimm's law or other
<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>
phonetic rules, I should have felt most grateful; but
if he tells me that the Greek Erinys should not be
derived from the Sanskrit Sara<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>yû, but from the
Greek verb ἐρινύειν, to be angry, he might as well derive
<hi rend='italic'>critic</hi> from <hi rend='italic'>to
criticise</hi>;<note place='foot'>Professor Blackie
quotes Pausanias in support of this etymology. He
says: <q>The account of Pausanias (viii. 25, 26), according to which the
terrible impersonation of conscience, or the violated moral law, is derived
from ἐρινύειν, an old Greek verb originally signifying to be angry, has sufficient
probability, not to mention the obvious analogy of Ἀραί, another
name sometimes given to the awful maids (σεμναί), from ἀρά, an imprecation.</q>
If Professor Blackie will refer to Pausanias himself, he will find
that the Arcadians assigned a very different cause to the anger of Demeter,
which is supposed to have led to the formation of her new name Erinys.</note>
and if he maintains
that a name may have two or three legitimate etymologies,
I can only answer that we might as well
say that a child could have two or three legitimate
mothers.
</p>

<p>
I have most reluctantly entered upon these somewhat
personal explanations, and I should not have
done so if I alone had been concerned in Professor
Blackie's onslaught. I hope, however, that I have
avoided anything that could give just offence to Professor
Blackie, even if he should be present here tonight.
Though he abuses me as a German, and
laughs at the instinctive aversion to external facts
and the extravagant passion for self-evolved ideas as
national failings of all Germans (I only wonder that
the story of the camel and the inner consciousness
did not come in), yet I know that for many years
German poetry and German scholarship have had few
more ardent admirers, and German scholars few more
trusty friends, than Professor Blackie. Nationality,
it seems to me, has as little to do with scholarship as
with logic. On the contrary, in every nation he that
will work hard and reason honestly may be sure to
<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>
discover some grains of truth. National jealousies
and animosities have no place in the republic of letters,
which is, and I trust always will be, the true international
republic of all friends of work, of order,
and of truth.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='III. On False Analogies In Comparative Theology.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='III. On False Analogies In Comparative Theology.'/>
<head type='sub'>III.</head>
<head>On False Analogies In Comparative Theology.</head>

<p>
Very different from the real similarities that can
be discovered in nearly all the religions of the world,
and which, owing to their deeply human character,
in no way necessitate the admission that one religion
borrowed from the other, are those minute coincidences
between the Jewish and the Pagan religions
which have so often been discussed by learned theologians,
and which were intended by them as proof
positive, either that the Pagans borrowed their religious
ideas direct from the Old Testament, or that
some fragments of a primeval revelation, granted to
the ancestors of the whole race of mankind, had been
preserved in the temples of Greece and Italy.
</p>

<p>
Bochart, in his <q>Geographia Sacra,</q> considered
the identity of Noah and Saturn so firmly established
as hardly to admit of the possibility of a doubt. The
three sons of Saturn&mdash;Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto&mdash;he
represented as having been originally the three
sons of Noah: Jupiter being Ham; Neptune, Japhet;
and Shem, Pluto. Even in the third generation the two
families were proved to have been one, for Phut,
the son of Ham, or of Jupiter Hammon, could be no
other than Apollo Pythius; Canaan no other than
<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>
Mercury; and Nimrod no other than Bacchus, whose
original name was supposed to have been Bar-chus,
the son of Cush. G. J. Vossius, in his learned work,
<q>De Origine et Progressu Idolatriæ</q> (1688), identified
Saturn with Adam, Janus with Noah, Pluto with
Ham, Neptune with Japhet, Minerva with Naamah,
Vulcan with Tubal Cain, Typhon with Og. Huet,
the friend of Bochart, and the colleague of Bossuet,
went still farther; and in his classical work, the
<q>Demonstratio Evangelica,</q> he attempted to prove
that the whole theology of the heathen nations was
borrowed from Moses, whom he identified not only
with ancient law-givers, like Zoroaster and Orpheus,
but with gods and demi-gods, such as Apollo, Vulcan,
Faunus, and Priapus.
</p>

<p>
All this happened not more than two hundred
years ago; and even a hundred years ago, nay, even
after the discovery of Sanskrit and the rise of Comparative
Philology, the troublesome ghost of Huet was
by no means laid at once. On the contrary, as soon
as the ancient language and religion of India became
known in Europe, they were received by many people
in the same spirit. Sanskrit, like all other languages,
was to be derived from Hebrew, the ancient religion
of the Brahmans from the Old Testament.
</p>

<p>
There was at that time an enthusiasm among Oriental
scholars, particularly at Calcutta, and an interest
for Oriental antiquities in the public at large, of
which we in these days of apathy for Eastern literature
can hardly form an adequate idea. Everybody
wished to be first in the field, and to bring to light
some of the treasures which were supposed to be hidden
in the sacred literature of the Brahmans. Sir
William Jones, the founder of the Asiatic Society
<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>
at Calcutta, published in the first volume of the
<q>Asiatic Researches</q> his famous essay, <q>On the
Gods of Greece, Italy, and India;</q> and he took particular
care to state that his essay, though published
only in 1788, had been written in 1784. In that essay
he endeavored to show that there existed an intimate
connection, not only between the mythology of
India and that of Greece and Italy, but likewise between
the legendary stories of the Brahmans and the
accounts of certain historical events as recorded in
the Old Testament. No doubt, the temptation was
great. No one could look down for a moment into
the rich mine of religious and mythological lore that
was suddenly opened before the eyes of scholars and
theologians, without being struck by a host of similarities,
not only in the languages, but also in the ancient
traditions of the Hindus, the Greeks, and the
Romans; and if at that time the Greeks and Romans
were still supposed to have borrowed their language
and their religion from Jewish quarters, the same
conclusion could hardly be avoided with regard to
the language and the religion of the Brahmans of India.
</p>

<p>
The first impulse to look in the ancient religion of
India for reminiscences of revealed truth seems to
have come from missionaries rather than from scholars.
It arose from a motive, in itself most excellent,
of finding some common ground for those who wished
to convert and those who were to be converted. Only,
instead of looking for that common ground where it
really was to be found&mdash;namely, in the broad foundations
on which all religions are built up: the belief
in a divine power, the acknowledgment of sin, the
habit of prayer, the desire to offer sacrifice, and the
<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>
hope of a future life&mdash;the students of Pagan religion
as well as Christian missionaries were bent on
discovering more striking and more startling coincidences,
in order to use them in confirmation of their
favorite theory that some rays of a primeval revelation,
or some reflection of the Jewish religion, had
reached the uttermost ends of the world. This was
a dangerous proceeding&mdash;dangerous because superficial,
dangerous because undertaken with a foregone
conclusion; and very soon the same arguments that
had been used on one side in order to prove that all
religious truth had been derived from the Old Testament
were turned against Christian scholars and
Christian missionaries, in order to show that it was
not Brahmanism and Buddhism which had borrowed
from the Old and New Testament, but that the Old
and the New Testament had borrowed from the more
ancient religions of the Brahmans and Buddhists.
</p>

<p>
This argument was carried out, for instance, in
Holwell's <q>Original Principles of the Ancient Brahmans,</q>
published in London as early as 1779, in which
the author maintains that <q>the Brahmanic religion is
the first and purest product of supernatural revelation,</q>
and <q>that the Hindu scriptures contain to a
moral certainty the original doctrines and terms of
restoration delivered from God himself, by the mouth
of his first created Birmah, to mankind, at his first
creation in the form of man.</q>
</p>

<p>
Sir William Jones<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Asiatic Researches,
i.</hi> p. 272; <hi rend='italic'>Life of Sir W. Jones</hi>, vol. ii. p. 240
<hi rend='italic'>seq.</hi></note> tells us that one or two missionaries
in India had been absurd enough, in their
zeal for the conversion of the Gentiles, to urge <q>that
the Hindus were even now almost Christians, because
<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>
their Brahma, Vishnu, and Mahesa were no
other than the Christian Trinity;</q> a sentence in
which, he adds, we can only doubt whether folly, ignorance,
or impiety predominates.
</p>

<p>
Sir William Jones himself was not likely to fall
into that error. He speaks against it most emphatically.
<q>Either,</q> he says, <q>the first eleven chapters
of Genesis&mdash;all due allowance being made for a figurative
Eastern style&mdash;are true, or the whole fabric
of our national religion is false; a conclusion which
none of us, I trust, would wish to be drawn. But it
is not the truth of our national religion as such that
I have at heart; it is truth itself; and if any cool,
unbiassed reasoner will clearly convince me that
Moses drew his narrative through Egyptian conduits
from the primeval fountains of Indian literature, I
shall esteem him as a friend for having weeded my
mind from a capital error, and promise to stand
amongst the foremost in assisting to circulate the
truth which he has ascertained.</q>
</p>

<p>
But though he speaks so strongly against the uncritical
proceedings of those who would derive anything
that is found in the Old Testament from Indian
sources, Sir William Jones himself was really
guilty of the same want of critical caution in his own
attempts to identify the gods and heroes of Greece
and Rome with the gods and heroes of India. He
begins his essay,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Asiatic Researches</hi>,
i. p. 221.</note> <q>On the Gods of Greece, Italy, and
India,</q> with the following remarks:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>We cannot justly conclude, by arguments preceding
the proof of facts, that one idolatrous people
must have borrowed their deities, rites, and tenets
from another, since gods of all shapes and dimensions
<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>
may be framed by the boundless powers of imagination,
or by the frauds and follies of men, in countries
never connected; but when features of resemblance,
too strong to have been accidental, are observable in
different systems of polytheism, without fancy or
prejudice to color them and improve the likeness, we
can scarce help believing that some connection has
immemorially subsisted between the several nations
who have adopted them. It is my design in this essay
to point out such a resemblance between the popular
worship of the old Greeks and Italians and that
of the Hindus; nor can there be any room to doubt
of a great similarity between their strange religions
and that of Egypt, China, Persia, Phrygia, Phœnice,
and Syria; to which, perhaps, we may safely add
some of the southern kingdoms, and even islands of
America; while the Gothic system which prevailed
in the northern regions of Europe was not merely
similar to those of Greece and Italy, but almost the
same in another dress, with an embroidery of images
apparently Asiatic. From all this, if it be satisfactorily
proved, we may infer a general union or affinity
between the most distinguished inhabitants of the
primitive world at the time when they deviated, as
they did too early deviate, from the rational adoration
of the only true God.</q>
</p>

<p>
Here, then, in an essay written nearly a hundred
years ago by Sir W. Jones, one of the most celebrated
Oriental scholars in England, it might seem as if we
should find the first outlines of that science which is
looked upon as but of to-day or yesterday&mdash;the outlines
of Comparative Mythology. But in such an
expectation we are disappointed. What we find is
merely a superficial comparison of the mythology of
<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>
India and that of other nations, both Aryan and
Semitic, without any scientific value, because carried
out without any of those critical tests which alone
keep Comparative Mythology from running riot.
This is not intended as casting a slur on Sir W.
Jones. At his time the principles which have now
been established by the students of the science of
language were not yet known, and as with words, so
with the names of deities, similarity of sound, the
most treacherous of all sirens, was the only guide in
such researches.
</p>

<p>
It is not pleasant to have to find fault with a man
possessed of such genius, taste, and learning as Sir
W. Jones, but no one who is acquainted with the history
of these researches will be surprised at my words.
It is the fate of all pioneers, not only to be left behind
in the assault which they had planned, but to
find that many of their approaches were made in a
false direction, and had to be abandoned. But as the
authority of their names continues to sway the public
at large, and is apt to mislead even painstaking students
and to entail upon them repeated disappointments,
it is necessary that those who know should
speak out, even at the risk of being considered harsh
or presumptuous.
</p>

<p>
A few instances will suffice to show how utterly
baseless the comparisons are which Sir W. Jones instituted
between the gods of India, Greece, and Italy.
He compares the Latin Janus with the Sanskrit deity
Ganesa. It is well known that Janus is connected
with the same root that has yielded the names of
Jupiter, Zeus, and Dyaus, while Ganesa is a compound,
meaning lord of hosts, lord of the companies
of gods.
</p>

<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>

<p>
Saturnus is supposed to have been the same as
Noah, and is then identified by Sir W. Jones with
the Indian Manu Satyavrata, who escaped from the
flood. Ceres is compared with the goddess Sri, Jupiter
or Diespiter with Indra or Divaspati; and though
etymology is called a weak basis for historical inquiries,
the three syllables Jov in Jovis, Zeu in Zeus,
and Siv in Siva are placed side by side, as possibly
containing the same root, only differently pronounced.
Now the s of Siva is a palatal s, and no scholar who
has once looked into a book on Comparative Philology
need be told that such an s could never correspond
to a Greek Zeta or a Latin J.
</p>

<p>
In K<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>sh<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a, the lovely shepherd-god,
Sir W. Jones recognizes the features of Apollo Nomius, who fed
the herds of Admetus, and slew the dragon Python;
and he leaves it to etymologists to determine whether
Gopâla&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>, the cow-herd&mdash;may not be the same
word as Apollo. We are also assured, on the authority
of Colonel Vallancey, that K<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>sh<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a in
Irish means the sun, and that the goddess Kâlî, to whom human
sacrifices were offered, as enjoined in the Vedas (?)
was the same as Hekate. In conclusion, Sir W.
Jones remarks, <q>I strongly incline to believe that
Egyptian priests have actually come from the Nile to
the Gangâ and Yamunâ, and that they visited the
Sarmans of India, as the sages of Greece visited them,
rather to acquire than to impart knowledge.</q>
</p>

<p>
The interest that had been excited by Sir William
Jones's researches did not subside, though he himself
did not return to the subject, but devoted his great
powers to more useful labors. Scholars, both in India
and in Europe, wanted to know more of the ancient
religion of India. If Jupiter, Apollo, and Janus
<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>
had once been found in the ancient pantheon of the
Brahmans; if the account of Noah and the deluge
could be traced back to the story of Manu Satyavrata,
who escaped from the flood, more discoveries might
be expected in this newly-opened mine, and people
rushed to it with all the eagerness of gold-diggers.
The idea that everything in India was of extreme
antiquity had at that time taken a firm hold on the
minds of all students of Sanskrit; and, as there was
no one to check their enthusiasm, everything that
came to light in Sanskrit literature was readily accepted
as more ancient than Homer, or even than the
Old Testament.
</p>

<p>
It was under these influences that Lieutenant Wilford,
a contemporary of Sir William Jones at Calcutta,
took up the thread which Sir William Jones
had dropped, and determined at all hazards to solve
the question which at that time had excited a worldwide
interest. Convinced that the Brahmans possessed
in their ancient literature the originals, not
only of Greek and Roman mythology, but likewise
of the Old Testament history, he tried every possible
means to overcome their reserve and reticence. He
related to them, as well as he could, the principal
stories of classical mythology, and the leading events
in the history of the Old Testament; he assured
them that they would find the same things in their
ancient books, if they would but look for them; he
held out the hopes of ample rewards for any extracts
from their sacred literature containing the histories
of Adam and Eve, of Deukalion and Prometheus;
and at last he succeeded. The coyness of the Pandits
yielded; the incessant demand created a supply;
and for several years essay after essay appeared in
<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>
the <q>Asiatic Researches,</q> with extracts from Sanskrit
MSS., containing not only the names of Deukalion,
Prometheus, and other heroes and deities of
Greece, but likewise the names of Adam and Eve, of
Abraham and Sarah, and all the rest.
</p>

<p>
Great was the surprise, still greater the joy, not
only in Calcutta, but in London, at Paris, and all the
universities of Germany. The Sanskrit MSS. from
which Lieutenant Wilford quoted, and on which his
theories were based, had been submitted to Sir W.
Jones and other scholars; and though many persons
were surprised, and for a time even incredulous, yet
the fact could not be denied that all was found in
these Sanskrit MSS. as stated by Lieutenant Wilford.
Sir W. Jones, then President of the Asiatic
Society, printed the following declaration at the end
of the third volume of the <q>Asiatic Researches</q>:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>Since I am persuaded that the learned essay on
Egypt and the Nile has afforded you equal delight
with that which I have myself received from it, I
cannot refrain from endeavoring to increase your satisfaction
by confessing openly that I have at length
abandoned the greatest part of the natural distrust,
and incredulity which had taken possession of my
mind before I had examined the sources from which
our excellent associate, Lieutenant Wilford, has drawn
so great a variety of new and interesting opinions.
Having lately read again and again, both alone and
with a Pandit, the numerous original passages in the
Purânas, and other Sanskrit books, which the writer
of the dissertation adduces in support of his assertions,
I am happy in bearing testimony to his perfect
good faith and general accuracy, both in his extracts
and in the translation of them.</q>
</p>

<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>

<p>
Sir W. Jones then proceeds himself to give a translation
of some of these passages. <q>The following
translation,</q> he writes, <q>of an extract from the Padma-purâna
is minutely exact</q>:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>1. To <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Satyavarman</foreign>, the
sovereign of the whole earth, were born three sons; the eldest, <foreign lang='sa'
rend='italic'>Sherma</foreign>; then <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Charma</foreign>;
and thirdly, <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Jyapeti</foreign>.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>2. They were all men of good morals, excellent
in virtue and virtuous deeds, skilled in the use of
weapons to strike with, or to be thrown, brave men,
eager for victory in battle.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>3. But <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Satyavarman</foreign>,
being continually delighted
with devout meditation, and seeing his sons
fit for dominion, laid upon them the burden of government,</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>4. Whilst he remained honoring and satisfying
the gods, and priests, and kine. One day, by the act
of destiny, the king, having drunk mead,</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>5. Became senseless, and lay asleep naked; then
was he seen by <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Charma</foreign>, and by him were his two
brothers called.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>6. To whom he said: What now has befallen?
In what state is this our sire? By those two was he
hidden with clothes, and called to his senses again
and again.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>7. Having recovered his intellect, and perfectly
knowing what had passed, he cursed <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Charma</foreign>,
saying, Thou shalt be the servant of servants:</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>8. And since thou wast a laugher in their presence,
from laughter shalt thou acquire a name. Then
he gave to <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Sherma</foreign> the wide domain on the south
of the snowy mountains.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>9. And to <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Jyapeti</foreign> he gave all on the north
of the snowy mountains; but he, by the power of religious
contemplation, obtained supreme bliss.</q>
</p>

<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>

<p>
After this testimony from Sir W. Jones&mdash;wrung
from him, as it would seem, against his own wish and
will&mdash;Lieutenant Wilford's essays became more numerous
and more startling every year.
</p>

<p>
At last, however, the coincidences became too
great. The MSS. were again carefully examined;
and then it was found that a clever forgery had been
committed, that leaves had been inserted in ancient
MSS., and that on these leaves the Pandits, urged by
Lieutenant Wilford to disclose their ancient mysteries
and traditions, had rendered in correct Sanskrit verse
all that they had heard about Adam and Abraham
from their inquisitive master. Lieutenant (then Colonel)
Wilford did not hesitate for one moment to
confess publicly that he had been imposed upon; but
in the meantime the mischief had been done, his
essays had been read all over Europe, they retained
their place in the volumes of the <q>Asiatic Researches,</q>
and to the present day some of his statements
and theories continue to be quoted authoritatively
by writers on ancient religion.
</p>

<p>
Such accidents, and, one might almost say, such
misfortunes, will happen, and it would be extremely
unfair were we to use unnecessarily harsh language
with regard to those to whom they have happened.
It is perfectly true that at present, after the progress
that has been made in an accurate and critical study
of Sanskrit, it would be unpardonable if any Sanskrit
scholar accepted such passages as those translated by
Sir W. Jones as genuine. Yet it is by no means
certain that a further study of Sanskrit will not lead
to similar disenchantments, and deprive many a book
in Sanskrit literature which now is considered as very
ancient of its claims to any high antiquity. Certain
<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>
portions of the Veda even, which, as far as our knowledge
goes at present, we are perfectly justified in referring
to the tenth or twelfth century before our era,
may some day or other dwindle down from their high
estate, and those who have believed in their extreme
antiquity will then be held up to blame or ridicule,
like Sir W. Jones or Colonel Wilford. This cannot
be avoided, for science is progressive, and does not
acknowledge, even in the most distinguished scholars,
any claims to infallibility. One lesson only may we
learn from the disappointment that befell Colonel
Wilford, and that is to be on our guard against anything
which in ordinary language would be called
<q>too good to be true.</q>
</p>

<p>
Comparative Philology has taught us again and
again that when we find a word exactly the same in
Greek and Sanskrit, we may be certain that it cannot
be the same word; and the same applies to Comparative
Mythology. The same god or the same
hero cannot have exactly the same name in Sanskrit
and Greek, for the simple reason that Sanskrit and
Greek have deviated from each other, have both followed
their own way, have both suffered their own
phonetic corruptions; and hence, if they do possess
the same word, they can only possess it either in its
Greek or its Sanskrit disguise. And if that caution
applies to Sanskrit and Greek, members of the same
family of language, how much more strongly must it
apply to Sanskrit and Hebrew! If the first man
were called in Sanskrit Âdima, and in Hebrew Adam,
and if the two were really the same word, then Hebrew
and Sanskrit could not be members of two different
families of speech, or we should be driven to
admit that Adam was borrowed by the Jews from
<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>
the Hindus for it is in Sanskrit only that âdima
means the first, whereas in Hebrew it has no such
meaning.
</p>

<p>
The same remark applies to a curious coincidence
pointed out many years ago by Mr. Ellis in his
<q>Polynesian Researches</q> (London, 1829, vol. ii. p.
38). We there read:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>A very generally received Tahitian tradition is
that the first human pair were made by Taaroa, the
principal deity formerly acknowledged by the nation.
On more than one occasion I have listened to the details
of the people respecting his work of creation.
They say that, after Taaroa had formed the world,
he created man out of araea, red earth, which was
also the food of man until bread first was made. In
connection with this some relate that Taaroa one day
called for the man by name. When he came, he
caused him to fall asleep, and, while he slept, he
took out one of his <foreign rend='italic'>ivi</foreign>, or bones, and with it made
a woman, whom he gave to the man as his wife, and
they became the progenitors of mankind. This,</q>
Mr. Ellis continues, <q>always appeared to me a mere
recital of the Mosaic account of creation, which they
had heard from some European, and I never placed
any reliance on it, although they have repeatedly
told me it was a tradition among them before any
foreigners arrived. Some have also stated that the
woman's name was <foreign rend='italic'>Ivi</foreign>, which would be by them pronounced
as if written <foreign rend='italic'>Eve</foreign>. <foreign rend='italic'>Ivi</foreign>
is an aboriginal word, and not only signifies a bone, but also a widow, and
a victim slain in war. Notwithstanding the assertion
of the natives, I am disposed to think that <foreign rend='italic'>Ivi</foreign>, or
<foreign rend='italic'>Eve</foreign>, is the only aboriginal part of the story, as far as
it respects the mother of the human race. Should
<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>
more careful and minute inquiry confirm the truth of
this declaration, and prove that their account was in
existence among them prior to their intercourse with
Europeans, it will be the most remarkable and valuable
oral tradition of the origin of the human race
yet known.</q>
</p>

<p>
In this case, I believe the probability is that the
story of the creation of the first woman from the
bone of a man<note place='foot'>See <hi rend='italic'>Introduction
to the Science of Religion</hi>, p. 48.</note> existed among the Tahitians before
their intercourse with Christians, but I need hardly
add that the similarity between the Polynesian name
for bone, <foreign rend='italic'>ivi</foreign>, even when it was used as the name of
the first woman, and the English corruption of the
Hebrew הוה, Chāvah, Eve, could be the result of accident
only. Whatever Chāvah meant in Hebrew,
whether life or living or anything else, it never meant
bone, while the Tahitian <foreign rend='italic'>ivi</foreign>, the Maori
<foreign rend='italic'>wheva</foreign>,<note place='foot'>The Rev. W. W. Gill tells
me that the Maori word for bone is <foreign rend='italic'>iwi</foreign>, but
he suspects a foreign origin for the fable founded on it.</note> meant
bone, and bone only.
</p>

<p>
These principles and these cautions were hardly
thought of in the days of Sir William Jones and
Colonel Wilford, but they ought to be thought of at
present. Thus, before Bopp had laid down his code
of phonetic laws, and before Burnouf had written his
works on Buddhism, one cannot be very much surprised
that Buddha should have been identified with
Minos and Lamech; nay, that even the Babylonian
deity Belus, and the Teutonic deity Wodan or Odin,
should have been supposed to be connected with the
founder of Buddhism in India. As Burnouf said in
his <q>Introduction a l'Histoire du Buddhisme,</q> p. 70:
<q>On avait même fait du Buddha une planète; et je
<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>
ne sais pas si quelques savants ne se plaisent pas encore
aujourd'hui à retrouver ce sage paisible sous les
traits du belliqueux Odin.</q> But we did not expect
that we should have to read again, in a book published
in 1869, such statements as these:<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Tree and Serpent
Worship</hi>, by James Fergusson. London, 1868.
Very similar opinions had been advocated by Rajendralal Mitra, in a paper
published in 1858 in the <hi rend='italic'>Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society</hi>,
<q>Buddhism and Odinism, illustrated by extracts from Professor Holmboe's Memoir
on the <hi rend='italic'>Traces du Buddhisme en Norvège</hi>.</q> How much mischief is
done by opinions of this kind when they once find their way into the general
public, and are supported by names which carry weight, may be seen
by the following extracts from the <hi rend='italic'>Pioneer</hi> (July 30, 1878), a
native paper published in India. Here we read that the views of Holmboe, Rajendralal
Mitra, and Fergusson, as to a possible connection between Buddha and Wodan,
between Buddhism and Wodenism, have been adopted and preached by
an English bishop, in order to convince his hearers, who were chiefly Buddhists,
that the religion of the gentle ascetic came originally, if not from the
Northeast of Scotland, at all events from the Saxons. <q>Gotama Buddha,</q>
he maintained, <q>was a Saxon,</q> coming from <q>a Saxon family which had
penetrated into India.</q> And again: <q>The most convincing proof to us
Anglo-Indians lies in the fact that the Purânas named Varada and Matsy
distinctly assert that the White Island in the West&mdash;meaning England&mdash;was
known in India as Sacana, having been conquered at a very early
period by the Sacas or Saks.</q> After this the bishop takes courage, and says:
<q>Let me call your attention to the Pâli word
<foreign rend='italic'>Nibban</foreign>,
called in Sanskirt Nirv<hi rend='italic'>âna</hi>. In the Anglo-Saxon you have the
identical word&mdash;Nabban,
meaning <q>not to have,</q> or <q>to be without a thing.</q></q></note>&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>There is certainly a much greater similarity between
the Buddhism of the Topes and the Scandinavian
mythology than between it and the Buddhism
of the books; but still the gulf between the two is
immense; and if any traces of the doctrines of the
gentle ascetic (Buddha) ever existed in the bosom of
Odin or his followers, while dwelling near the roots
of the Caucasus, all that can be said is, that they
suffered fearful shipwreck among the rocks of the
savage superstitions of the North, and sank, never
again to appear on the surface of Scandinavian mythology.
If the two religions come anywhere in contact,
<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>
it is at their base, for underlying both there existed
a strange substratum of Tree and Serpent Worship;
on this the two structures seem to have been
raised, though they afterwards diverged into forms so
strangely dissimilar</q> (p. 34).
</p>

<p>
Or again (p. 32):&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>We shall probably not err far if we regard these
traces of serpent worship as indicating the presence
in the Northeast of Scotland of the head of that column
of migration, or of propagandism, which, under
the myth of Wodenism, we endeavored in a previous
chapter to trace from the Caucasus to Scandinavia.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The arbors under which two of the couples are
seated are curious instances of that sort of summer-house
which may be found adorning tea-gardens in
the neighborhood of London to the present day. It
is scenes like these that make us hesitate before asserting
that there could not possibly be any connection
between Buddhism and Wodenism</q> (p. 140).
</p>

<p>
<q>One of the most tempting nominal similarities
connected with this subject is suggested by the name
of Mâyâ. The mother of Buddha was called Mâyâ.
The mother of Mercury was also Maia, the daughter
of Atlas. The Romans always called Wodin, Mercury,
and <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Mercurii</foreign>
and <foreign rend='italic'>Wodensday</foreign> alike designated
the fourth day of the week.... These and
other similarities have been frequently pointed out
and insisted upon, and they are too numerous and
too distinct not to have some foundation in reality</q>
(p. 186, note).
</p>

<p>
Statements like these cannot be allowed to pass unnoticed
or uncontradicted, particularly if supported
by the authority of a great name; and after having
<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>
spoken so freely of the unscientific character of the
mythological comparisons instituted by scholars like
Sir William Jones and Lieutenant Wilford, who can
no longer defend themselves, it would be mere cowardice
to shrink from performing the same unpleasant
duty in the case of a living writer, who has shown
that he knows how to wield the weapons both of defence
and attack.
</p>

<p>
It is perfectly true that the mother of Buddha
was called Mâyâ, but it is equally true that the Sanskrit
Mâyâ cannot be the Greek Maiā. It is quite
true, also, that the fourth day of the week is called
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Mercurii</foreign> in Latin,
and Wednesday in English;
nay, that in Sanskrit the same day is called
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Budha-dina</foreign>
or <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Budha-vâra</foreign>. But the origin of all these
names falls within perfectly historical times, and can
throw no light whatever on the early growth of mythology
and religion.
</p>

<p>
First of all, we have to distinguish between
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Budha</foreign> and
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Buddha</foreign>. The two names, though so
like each other, and therefore constantly mistaken
one for the other, have nothing in common but their
root. <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Buddha</foreign>
with two d's, is the participle of
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>budh</foreign>,
and means awakened, enlightened.<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Buddhaghosha's Parables</hi>, translated by Captain Rogers, with an
Introduction containing Buddha's Dhammapada, translated from Pâli, by
M. M., 1870, p. 110, note.</note> It is the
name given to those who have reached the highest
stage of human wisdom, and it is known most generally
as the title of Gotama, <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âkya-muni, the
founder of Buddhism, whose traditional era dates
from 543 <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi>
<foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Budha</foreign>, on the contrary, with one d,
means simply knowing, and it became in later times,
when the Hindus received from the Greeks a knowledge
<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>
of the planets, the name of the planet Mercury.
</p>

<p>
It is well known that the names of the seven days
of the week are derived from the names of the planets,<note place='foot'>Hare,
<q>On the Names of the Days of the Week</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Philol. Museum</hi>,
Nov. 1831); Ideler, <hi rend='italic'>Handbuch der Chronologie</hi>, p. 177;
Grimm, <hi rend='italic'>Deutsche Mythologie</hi>, p. 111.</note>
and it is equally well known that in Europe the
system of weeks and week-days is comparatively of
very modern origin. It was not a Greek, nor a Roman,
nor a Hindu, but a Jewish or Babylonian invention.
The Sabbath (Sabbata) was known and
kept at Rome in the first century <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi> with many
superstitious practices. It is mentioned by Horace,
Ovid, Tibullus (<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Saturni</foreign>), Persius,
Juvenal. Ovid calls it a day <q><foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>rebus minus apta
gerendis</foreign>.</q> Augustus (Suet. <q>Aug.</q> c. 76) evidently imagined
that the Jews fasted on their Sabbath, for he said,
<q>Not even a Jew keeps the fast of the Sabbath so
strictly as I have kept this day.</q> In fact, Josephus
(<q>Contra Apion.</q> ii. 39) was able to say that there
was no town, Greek or not Greek, where the custom
observing the seventh day had not spread.<note place='foot'><p>A writer in
the <hi rend='italic'>Index</hi> objects to my representation of what Josephus
said with regard to the observance of the seventh day in Greek and barbarian
towns. He writes:&mdash;
</p>
<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Washington</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Nov. 9, 1872.</hi>
</p>
<p>
<q rend='pre'>The article by Max Müller in the <hi rend='italic'>Index</hi> of this
week contains, I think, one error, caused doubtless by his taking a false translation
of a passage from Josephus instead of the original. <q>In fact,</q> says Professor
Müller, <q>Josephus (<hi rend='italic'>Contra Apion.</hi> ii. 39) was able to say that
there was no town, Greek or not Greek, where the custom of observing the seventh day
had not spread.</q> Mr. Wm. B. Taylor, in a discussion of the Sabbath question
with the Rev. Dr. Brown, of Philadelphia, in 1853 (<hi rend='italic'>Obligation of the
Sabbath</hi>, p. 120), gives this rendering of the passage: <q>Nor is there anywhere
any city of the Greeks, nor a single barbarian nation, whither the institution
of the Hebdomade (<emph>which we mark by resting</emph>) has not travelled;</q>
then in a note Mr. Taylor gives the original Greek of part of the passage,
and adds: <q>Josephus does not say that the Greek and barbarian rested,
but that <emph>we</emph> [the Jews] observe it by rest.</q></q>
</p>
<p>
<q>The corrected translation only adds strength to Max Müller's position
in regard to the very limited extent of Sabbath observance in ancient
times; and Mr. Taylor brings very strong historical proof to maintain the
assertion (p. 24) that <q>throughout all history we discover no trace of a
Sabbath among the nations of antiquity.</q></q>
</p>
<p>
It seems to me that if we read the whole of Josephus's work, <hi rend='italic'>On the
Antiquity of the Jews</hi>, we cannot fail to perceive that what Josephus wished
to show towards the end of the second book was that other nations had
copied or were trying to copy the Jewish customs. He says: Ὑφ᾽ ἡμῶν τε
διηνέχθησαν οἱ νόμοι καὶ τοῖς ἄλλοις ἅπασιν ἀνθρώποις, ἀεὶ καὶ μᾶλλον αὐτῶν ζῆλον
ἐμπεποιήκασι.
He then says that the early Greek philosophers, though apparently
original in their theoretic speculations, followed the Jewish laws
with regard to practical and moral precepts. Then follows this sentence:
Οὐ μὴν ἀλλὰ καὶ πλήθεσιν ἤδη πολὺς ζῆλος γέγονεν ἐκ μακροῦ τῆς ἡμετέρας εὐσεβείας,
οὐ δ᾽ ἔστιν οὐ πόλις Ἑλλήνων οὐδετισουν οὐδὲ βάρβαρος, οὐδὲ ἕν ἔθνος, ἔνθα
μὴ τὸ τῆς ἑβδομάδος, ἥν ἀργοῦμεν ἡμεῖς, ἔθος οὐ διαπεφοιτηκε, καὶ αἱ νηστεῖαι καὶ
λύχνων ἀνακαύσεις καὶ πολλὰ τῶν εἰς βρῶσιν ἡμῖν οὐ νενομισμένων παρατετήρηται.
Μιμεῖσθαι δὲ πειρῶνται καὶ τὴν πρὸς ἀλλήλους ἡμῶν ὁμόνοιαν, κ.τ.λ. Standing
where it stands, the sentence about the ἑβδομάς can only mean that <q>there
is no town of Greeks nor of barbarians, nor one single people, where the
custom of the seventh day, on which we rest, has not spread, and where
fastings, and lighting of lamps, and much of what is forbidden to us with
regard to food are not observed. They try to imitate our mutual concord
also, etc.</q> Hebdomas, which originally meant the week, is here clearly
used in the sense of the seventh day, and though Josephus may exaggerate,
what he says is certainty <q>that there was no town, Greek or not
Greek, where the custom of observing the seventh day had not spread.</q></p></note>
It is
<pb n='117'/><anchor id='Pg117'/>
curious that we find the seventh day, the Sabbath,
even under its new Pagan name, as <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies
Saturni</foreign> or <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Kronike</foreign>, mentioned by
Roman and Greek writers, before the names of the other days of the week made
their appearance. Tibullus speaks of the day of
Saturn, <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Saturni</foreign>; Julius Frontinus
(under Nerva, 96-98) says that Vespasian attacked the Jews on
the day of Saturn, <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Saturni</foreign>; and Justin
Martyr (died 165) states that Christ was crucified the day
before the day of Kronos, and appeared to his disciples
the day after the day of Kronos. He does not
use the names of Friday and Sunday. Sunday, as
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Solis</foreign>, is mentioned by Justin Martyr
(<q>Apolog.</q>
<pb n='118'/><anchor id='Pg118'/>
i. 67), and by Tertullian (died 220), the usual name
of that day amongst Christians being the Lord's-day,
Κυριακή, <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dominica</foreign> or
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dominicus</foreign>. Clemens of Alexandria
(died 220) seems to have been the first who
used the names of Wednesday and Friday, Ἑρμοῦ καὶ
Ἀφροδίτης ἡμέρα.
</p>

<p>
It is generally stated, on the authority of Cassius
Dio, that the system of counting by weeks and weekdays
was first introduced in Egypt, and that at his
time, early in the third century, the Romans had
adopted it, though but recently. Be this as it may,
it would seem that, if Tibullus could use the name of
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Saturni</foreign> for Saturday, the whole system
of weekdays must have been settled and known at Rome in
his time. Cassius Dio tells us that the names were
assigned to each day διὰ τεσσάρων, by fours; or by giving
the first hour of the week to Saturn, then giving
one hour to each planet in succession, till the twenty-fifth
hour became again the first of the next day.
Both systems lead to the same result, as will be seen
from the following table:&mdash;
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(17) lw(17) lw(17) lw(17)'">
<row><cell><hi rend='italic'>Planets.</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>Latin.</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>French.</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>Sanskrit.</hi></cell></row>
<row><cell>1 Saturn 1</cell><cell>Dies Saturni</cell><cell>Samedi (dies sabbati)</cell>
     <cell>Saui-vāra</cell></row>
<row><cell>2 Jupiter 6</cell><cell>Dies Solis</cell><cell>Dimanche (dominicus)</cell>
      <cell>Ravi-vāra</cell></row>
<row><cell>3 Mars 4</cell><cell>Dies Lunæ</cell><cell>Lundi</cell>
     <cell>Soma-vāra</cell></row>
<row><cell>4 Sun 2</cell><cell>Dies Martis</cell><cell>Mardi</cell>
     <cell>Bhauma-vāra</cell></row>
<row><cell>5 Venus 7</cell><cell>Dies Mercurii</cell><cell>Mercredi</cell>
     <cell>Brihaspati-vāra</cell></row>
<row><cell>7 Moon 3</cell><cell>Dies Veneris</cell><cell>Vendredi</cell>
     <cell>Sukra-vāra</cell></row>
</table>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(17) lw(17) lw(17) lw(17)'">
<row><cell><hi rend='italic'>Planets.</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>Old Norse.</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>Anglo-Saxon.</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>English.</hi></cell></row>
<row><cell>1 Saturn 1</cell><cell>laugardagr (washing day)</cell><cell>sätres däg</cell>
      <cell>Saturday</cell></row>
<row><cell>2 Jupiter 6</cell><cell>sunnadagr</cell><cell>sunnan däg</cell>
     <cell>Sunday</cell></row>
<row><cell>3 Mars 4</cell><cell>mânadagr</cell><cell>monan däg</cell>
     <cell>Monday</cell></row>
<row><cell>4 Sun 2</cell><cell>tysdagr</cell><cell>tives däg</cell>
     <cell>Tuesday</cell></row>
<row><cell>5 Venus 7</cell><cell>odhinsdagr</cell><cell>vôdenes däg</cell>
     <cell>Wednesday</cell></row>
<row><cell>6 Mercury 5</cell><cell>thôrsdagr</cell><cell>thunores däg</cell>
     <cell>Thursday</cell></row>
<row><cell>7 Moon 3</cell><cell>friadagr</cell><cell>frige däg</cell>
     <cell>Friday</cell></row>
</table>

<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(17) lw(17) lw(17) lw(17)'">
<row><cell><hi rend='italic'>Planets.</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>Old-High German.</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>Middle-High German.</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>German.</hi></cell></row>
<row><cell>1 Saturn 1</cell><cell>sambaztag (sunnûn âband)</cell>
     <cell>samztac (sunnen âbent)</cell><cell>Samstag (Sonnabend)</cell></row>
<row><cell>2 Jupiter 6</cell><cell>sunnûn dag</cell><cell>sunnen tac</cell>
     <cell>Sonntag</cell></row>
<row><cell>3 Mars 3</cell><cell>mânin tac (?)</cell><cell>mân tac</cell>
     <cell>Montag</cell></row>
<row><cell>4 Sun 2</cell><cell>ziuwes tac (cies dac)</cell>
     <cell>zies tac (zies tac)</cell><cell>Dienstag</cell></row>
<row><cell>5 Venus 7</cell><cell>wuotanes tac (?) (mittawecha)</cell>
     <cell>mittwoch</cell><cell>Mittwoch</cell></row>
<row><cell>6 Mercury 5</cell><cell>donares tac</cell><cell>donres tac</cell>
     <cell>Donnerstag</cell></row>
<row><cell>7 Moon 3</cell><cell>fria dag</cell><cell>frîtac</cell>
     <cell>Freitag</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
After the names of the week-days had once been
settled, we have no difficulty in tracing their migration
towards the East and towards the West. The
Hindus had their own peculiar system of reckoning
days and months, but they adopted at a later time the
foreign system of counting by weeks of seven days,
and assigning a presiding planetary deity to each of
the seven days, according to the system described
above. As the Indian name of the planet Mercury
was Budha, the <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Mercurii</foreign> was naturally
called <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Budha-vâra</foreign> but never
<hi rend='italic'>Buddha-vâra</hi>; and the
fact that the mother of Mercury was called Maia, and
the mother of Buddha Mâyâ, could, therefore, have
had no bearing whatever on the name assigned to the
Indian Wednesday.<note place='foot'>Grimm, <hi rend='italic'>Deutsche Mythologie</hi>,
p. 118, note.</note> The very Buddhists, in Ceylon,
distinguish between buddha, the enlightened, and
budha, wise, and call Wednesday the day of Budha,
not of Buddha.<note place='foot'>In Singalese Wednesday is Badâ, in Tamil Budau. See
Kennet, in <hi rend='italic'>Indian Antiquary</hi>, 1874, p. 90; D'Alwis,
<hi rend='italic'>Journal of Ceylon Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society</hi>, 1870, p.
17.</note> Whether the names of the planets
were formed in India independently, or after Greek
models, is difficult to settle. The name of Budha, the
knowing or the clever, given to the planet Mercury,
seems, however, inexplicable except on the latter hypothesis.
</p>

<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>

<p>
Having traced the origin of the Sanskrit name of
the <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Mercurii</foreign>, Budha-vâra, let us now
see why the Teutonic nations, though perfectly ignorant of
Buddhism, called the same day the day of Wodan.
</p>

<p>
That the Teutonic nations received the names of
the week-days from their Greek and Roman neighbors
admits of no doubt. For commercial and military
arrangements between Romans and Germans
some kind of <foreign rend='italic'>lingua franca</foreign> must soon have sprung up,
and in it the names of the week-days must have found
their place. There would have been little difficulty
in explaining the meaning of Sun-day and Mon-day
to the Germans, but in order to make them understand
the meaning of the other names, some explanations
must have been given on the nature of the
different deities, in order to enable the Germans to
find corresponding names in their own language. A
Roman would tell his German friend that <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies
Veneris</foreign> meant the day of a goddess who represented beauty
and love, and on hearing this the German would at
once have thought of his own goddess of love, <foreign rend='italic'>Freyja</foreign>,
and have called the <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Veneris</foreign>
the day of <foreign rend='italic'>Freyja</foreign> or
Friday.<note place='foot'>Grimm, <hi rend='italic'>Deutsche Mythologie</hi>, p.
276.</note>
</p>

<p>
If <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Jupiter</foreign> was described as the god who
wields the thunderbolt, his natural representative in German would be
<foreign rend='italic'>Donar</foreign>,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ibid.</hi>
p. 151.</note> the Anglo-Saxon <foreign rend='italic'>Thunar</foreign>, the Old
Norse <foreign rend='italic'>Thor</foreign>; and hence the
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Jovis</foreign> would be called
the day of <foreign rend='italic'>Thor</foreign>, or Thursday. If the fact that Jupiter
was the king of the gods had been mentioned, his
proper representative in German would, no doubt,
have been <foreign rend='italic'>Wuotan</foreign> or
<foreign rend='italic'>Odin</foreign>.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ibid.</hi>
p. 120.</note> As it was, <foreign rend='italic'>Wuotan</foreign> or
<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>
<foreign rend='italic'>Odin</foreign> was chosen as the nearest approach to
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Mercury</foreign>,
the character which they share in common, and which
led to their identification, being most likely their love
of travelling through the air,<note place='foot'>Grimm, <hi rend='italic'>Deutsche
Mythologie</hi>, pp. 137-148.</note> also their granting
wealth and fulfilling the wishes of their worshippers,
in which capacity Wuotan is known by the name of
<foreign rend='italic'>Wunsch</foreign><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ibid.</hi>
p. 126. Oski in Icelandic, the god Wish, one of the names of
the highest god.</note> or <foreign rend='italic'>Wish</foreign>. We can thus
understand how it happened that father and son changed places, for
while <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Mercurius</foreign> is the son of
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Jupiter</foreign>,
<foreign rend='italic'>Wuotan</foreign> is the
father of <foreign rend='italic'>Donar</foreign>. <foreign lang='la'
rend='italic'>Mars</foreign>, the god of war, was identified
with the German <foreign rend='italic'>Tiu</foreign> or <foreign
rend='italic'>Ziu</foreign>, a name which,
though originally the same as <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Zeus</foreign> in Greek
or <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Dyaus</foreign> in Sanskrit, took a peculiarly
national character among the Germans, and became their god of
war.<note place='foot'>Tacit. <hi rend='italic'>Hist.</hi> iv. 64: <q>Communibus
Diis et præcipuo Deorum Marti grates agimus.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
There remained thus only the <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies Saturni</foreign>,
the day of Saturn, and whether this was called so in
imitation of the Latin name, or after an old German
deity of a similar name and character, is a point
which for the present we must leave unsettled.
</p>

<p>
What, however, is not unsettled is this, that if the
Germans, in interpreting these names of Roman deities
as well as they could, called the <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>dies
Mercurii</foreign>, the same day which the Hindus had called the day
of <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Budha</foreign> (with one
<hi rend='italic'>d</hi>), their day of <foreign rend='italic'>Wuotan</foreign>, this
was not because <q>the doctrines of the gentle ascetic
existed in the bosom of Odin or his followers, while
dwelling near the roots of the Caucasus,</q> but for
very different and much more tangible reasons.
</p>

<p>
But, apart from all this, by what possible process
<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>
could Buddha and Odin have ever been brought together
in the flesh? In the history of ancient religions,
Odin belongs to the same stratum of mythological
thought as <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Dyaus</foreign> in India,
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Zeus</foreign> in Greece,
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Jupiter</foreign> in Italy. He was worshipped as the
supreme deity during a period long anterior to the age of the
Veda and of Homer. His travels in Greece, and even
in Tyrkland,<note place='foot'>Grimm, <hi rend='italic'>l. c.</hi> p. 148.</note>
and his half-historical character as a
mere hero and a leader of his people, are the result
of the latest Euhemerism. Buddha, on the contrary,
is not a mythological, but a personal and historical
character, and to think of a meeting of Buddha and
Odin, or even of their respective descendants, at the
roots of Mount Caucasus, would be like imagining an
interview between Cyrus and Odin, between Mohammed
and Aphrodite.
</p>

<p>
A comparative study of ancient religions and mythologies,
as will be seen from these instances, is not
a subject to be taken up lightly. It requires not only
an accurate acquaintance with the minutest details of
comparative philology, but a knowledge of the history
of religions which can hardly be gained without
a study of original documents. As long, however, as
researches of this kind are carried on for their own
sake, and from a mere desire of discovering truth,
without any ulterior objects, they deserve no blame,
though, for a time, they may lead to erroneous results.
But when coincidences between different religions
and mythologies are searched out simply in support
of preconceived theories, whether by the friends
or enemies of religion, the sense of truth, the very
life of all science, is sacrificed, and serious mischief
will follow without fail. Here we have a right, not
<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>
only to protest, but to blame. There is on this account
a great difference between the books we have
hitherto examined, and a work lately published in
Paris by M. Jacolliot, under the sensational title of
<q>La Bible dans l'Inde, Vie de Jeseus Christna.</q> If
this book had been written with the pure enthusiasm
of Lieutenant Wilford, it might have been passed by
as a mere anachronism. But when one sees how its
author shuts his eyes against all evidence that would
tell against him, and brings together, without any
critical scruples, whatever seems to support his theory
that Christianity is a mere copy of the ancient religion
of India, mere silence would not be a sufficient
answer. Besides, the book has lately been translated
into English, and will be read, no doubt, by many
people who cannot test the evidence on which it professes
to be founded. We learn that M. Jacolliot
was some years ago appointed President of the Court
of Justice at Chandernagore, and that he devoted the
leisure left him from the duties of his position to
studying Sanskrit and the holy books of the Hindus.
He is said to have put himself in communication with
the Brahmans, who had obtained access to a great
number of MSS. carefully stored up in the depths of
the pagodas. <q>The purport of his book is</q> (I quote
from a friendly critic), <q>that our civilization, our religion,
our legends, our gods, have come to us from
India, after passing in succession through Egypt, Persia,
Judea, Greece, and Italy.</q> This statement, we
are told, is not confined to M. Jacolliot, but has been
admitted by almost all Oriental scholars. The Old
and New Testaments are found again in the Vedas,
and the texts quoted by M. Jacolliot in support of his
theory are said to leave it without doubt. Brahma
<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>
created Adima (in Sanskrit, the first man) and gave
him for companion Heva (in Sanskrit, that which
completes life). He appointed the island of Ceylon
for their residence. What follows afterwards is so
beautifully described that I may be pardoned for
quoting it. Only I must warn my readers, lest the
extract should leave too deep an impression on their
memory, that what M. Jacolliot calls a simple translation
from Sanskrit is, as far as I can judge, a simple
invention of some slightly mischievous Brahman, who,
like the Pandits of Lieutenant Wilford, took advantage
of the zeal and credulity of a French judge:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Having created the Man and the Woman (<emph>simultaneously</emph>,
not one after the other), and animated them
with the divine afflatus&mdash;the Lord said unto them:
<q>Behold, your mission is to people this beautiful Island
[Ceylon], where I have gathered together everything
pleasant and needful for your subsistence&mdash;the
rest of the Earth is as yet uninhabitable, but should
your progeny so increase as to render the bounds of
paradise too narrow a habitation, let them inquire of
me by sacrifice and I will make known my will.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>And thus saying, the Lord disappeared....</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Then Adam and Eve dwelt together for a time
in perfect happiness; but ere long a vague disquietude
began to creep upon them.... The Spirit
of Evil, jealous of their felicity and of the work of
Brahma, inspired them with disturbing thoughts;&mdash;<q>Let
us wander through the Island,</q> said Adam to
his companion, <q>and see if we may not find some part
even more beautiful than this.</q> ...</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>And Eve followed her husband ... wandering
for days and for months; ... but as they advanced
the woman was seized with strange and inexplicable
<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>
terrors: <q>Adam,</q> said she, <q>let us go no farther: it
seems to me that we are disobeying the Lord; have
we not already quitted the place which he assigned
us for a dwelling and forbade us to leave?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Fear not,</q> replied Adam; <q>this is not that fearful
wilderness of which he spake to us.</q> ....</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>And they wandered on....</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Arriving at last at the extremity of the Island,
they beheld a smooth and narrow arm of the sea, and
beyond it a vast and apparently boundless country,
connected with their Island only by a narrow and
rocky pathway arising from the bosom of the waters.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The wanderers stood amazed: the country
before them was covered with stately trees, birds of
a thousand colors flitting amidst their foliage.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>... <q>Behold, what beautiful things!</q> cried
Adam, <q>and what good fruit such trees must produce; ...
let us go and taste them, and if that
country is better than this, we will dwell there.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Eve, trembling, besought Adam to do nothing that
might irritate the Lord against them. <q>Are we not
well here? Have we not pure water and delicious
fruits? Wherefore seek other things?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>True,</q> replied Adam, <q>but we will return; what
harm can it be to visit this unknown country that
presents itself to our view?</q> .... And as he approached
the rocks, Eve, trembling, followed.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Placing his wife upon his shoulders, he proceeded
to cross the space that separated him from the object
of his desires, but no sooner did he touch the shore
than trees, flowers, fruits, birds, all that they had perceived
from the opposite side, in an instant vanished
amidst terrific clamor; ... the rocks by which
they had crossed sunk beneath the waters, a few
<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>
sharp peaks alone remaining above the surface, to indicate
the place of the bridge which had been destroyed
by Divine displeasure.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The vegetation which they had seen from the
opposite shore was but a delusive mirage raised by
the Spirit of Evil to tempt them to disobedience.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Adam fell, weeping, upon the naked sands, ... but
Eve throwing herself into his arms, besought him
not to despair; ... <q>let us rather pray to the
Author of all things to pardon us.</q> ....</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>And as she spake there came a voice from the
clouds, saying,</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q rend='pre'>Woman! <emph>thou</emph> hast only sinned from love to thy
husband, whom I commanded thee to love, and thou
hast hoped in me.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q rend='pre'>I therefore pardon thee&mdash;and I pardon him
also for <emph>thy</emph> sake: ... but ye may no more return
to paradise, which I had created for your happiness; ... through
your disobedience to my commands
the Spirit of Evil has obtained possession of the
Earth.... Your children reduced to labor and to
suffer by your fault will become corrupt and forget
me....</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>But I will send Vish<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>u, who will be born of a
woman, and who will bring to all the hope of a reward
in another life, and the means by prayer of
softening their sufferings.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
The translator from whom I have quoted exclaims
at the end, as well he might:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>What grandeur and what simplicity is this Hindu
legend! and at the same time how simply logical!... Behold
here the veritable Eve&mdash;the true
woman.</q>
</p>

<p>
But much more extraordinary things are quoted
<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>
by M. Jacolliot, from the Vedas and the commentaries.
</p>

<p>
On p. 63 we read that Manu, Minos, and Manes,
had the same name as Moses; on p. 73, the Brahmans
who invaded India are represented as the successors
of a great reformer called Christna. The
name of Zoroaster is derived from the Sanskrit Sûryastara
(p. 110), meaning <q>he who spreads the worship
of the Sun.</q> After it has been laid down (p.
116) that Hebrew was derived from Sanskrit, we are
assured that there is little difficulty in deriving Jehovah
from Zeus.<note place='foot'>P. 125. <q>Pour quiconque s'est occupé d'études
philologiques, Jéhova dérivé de Zeus est facile à admettre.</q></note>
Zeus, Jezeus, Jesus, and Isis are all
declared to be the same name, and later on (p. 130)
we learn that <q>at present the Brahmans who officiate
in the pagodas and temples give this title of Jeseus&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
the pure essence, the divine emanation&mdash;to
Christna only, who alone is recognized as the Word,
the truly incarnated, by the worshippers of Vish<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>u
and the freethinkers among the Brahmans.</q>
</p>

<p>
We are assured that the Apostles, the poor fishermen
of Galilee, were able to read the Veda (p. 356);
and it was their greatest merit that they did not
reject the miraculous accounts of the Vedic period,
because the world was not yet ripe for freedom of
thought. Kristna, or Christna, we read on p. 360,
signified in Sanskrit, sent by God, promised by God,
holy; and as the name of Christ or <foreign rend='italic'>Christos</foreign> is not
Hebrew, whence could it have been taken except
from Krishna, the son of Devakî, or, as M. Jacolliot
writes, Devanaguy?
</p>

<p>
It is difficult, nay, almost impossible, to criticise
or refute such statements, and yet it is necessary to
<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>
do so; for such is the interest, or I should rather
say the feverish curiosity, excited by anything that
bears on ancient religion, that M. Jacolliot's book
has produced a very wide and very deep impression.
It has been remarked with some surprise that Vedic
scholars in Europe had failed to discover these important
passages in the Veda which he has pointed
out, or, still worse, that they had never brought
them to the knowledge of the public. In fact, if
anything was wanting to show that a general knowledge
of the history of ancient religion ought to form
part of our education, it was the panic created by M.
Jacolliot's book. It is simply the story of Lieutenant
Wilford over again, only far less excusable now than
a hundred years ago. Many of the words which M.
Jacolliot quotes as Sanskrit are not Sanskrit at all;
others never have the meaning which he assigns to
them; and as to the passages from the Vedas (including
our old friend the Bhagaveda-gîta), they are
not from the Veda, they are not from any old Sanskrit
writer&mdash;they simply belong to the second half
of the nineteenth century. What happened to Lieutenant
Wilford has happened again to M. Jacolliot.
He tells us the secret himself:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>One day,</q> he says (p. 280), <q>when we were
reading the translation of Manu, by Sir W. Jones, a
note led us to consult the Indian commentator, Kullûka
Bha<hi rend='italic'>tt</hi>a, when we found an allusion to the sacrifice
of a son by his father prevented by God himself
after he had commanded it. We then had only one
<foreign rend='italic'>idée fixe</foreign>&mdash;namely, to find again in the dark
mass of the religious books of the Hindu, the original account
of that event. We should never have succeeded but
for <q>the complaisance</q> of a Brahman with whom we
<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>
were reading Sanskrit, and who, yielding to our request,
brought us from the library of his pagoda the
works of the theologian Ramatsariar, which have
yielded us such precious assistance in this volume.</q>
</p>

<p>
As to the story of the son offered as a sacrifice by
his father, and released at the command of the gods,
M. Jacolliot might have found the original account
of it from the Veda, both text and translation, in
my <q>History of Ancient Sanskrit Literature.</q> He
would soon have seen that the story of
<hi rend='italic'>S</hi>una<hi rend='italic'>hs</hi>epa
being sold by his father in order to be sacrificed in
the place of an Indian prince, has very little in common
with the intended sacrifice of Isaac by Abraham.
M. Jacolliot has, no doubt, found out by this time
that he has been imposed upon; and if so, he ought
to follow the example of Colonel Wilford, and publicly
state what has happened. Even then, I doubt
not that his statements will continue to be quoted
for a long time, and that <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Adima</foreign>
and <foreign lang='sa' rend='italic'>Heva</foreign>, thus
brought to life again, will make their appearance in
many a book and many a lecture-room.
</p>

<p>
Lest it be supposed that such accidents happen to
Sanskrit scholars only, or that this fever is bred only
in the jungles of Indian mythology, I shall mention
at least one other case which will show that this disease
is of a more general character, and that want of
caution will produce it in every climate.
</p>

<p>
Before the discovery of Sanskrit, China had stood
for a long time in the place which was afterwards
occupied by India. When the ancient literature and
civilization of China became first known to the scholars
of Europe, the Celestial Empire had its admirers
and prophets as full of enthusiasm as Sir W. Jones
and Lieutenant Wilford, and there was nothing,
<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>
whether Greek philosophy or Christian morality, that
was not supposed to have had its first origin among
the sages of China. The proceedings of the Jesuit
missionaries in China were most extraordinary. They
had themselves admitted the antiquity of the writings
of Confucius and Lao-tse, both of whom lived in
the sixth century <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi><note place='foot'>Stanislas Julien,
<hi rend='italic'>Le Livre de la Voie et de la Vertu</hi>. Paris, 1842,
p. iv.</note> But in their zeal to show
that the sacred books of the Chinese contained numerous
passages borrowed from the Bible, nay, even
some of the dogmas of the later Church, they hardly
perceived that, taking into account the respective
dates of these books, they were really proving that a
kind of anticipated Christianity had been accorded to
the ancient sages of the Celestial Empire. The most
learned advocate of this school was Father Prémare.
Another supporter of the same view, Montucci,<note place='foot'>Montucci,
<hi rend='italic'>De studiis sinicis</hi>. Berolini, 1808.</note>
speaking of Lao-tse's Tao-te-king, says:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>We find in it so many sayings clearly referring
to the triune God, that no one who has read this
book can doubt that the mystery of the most holy
Trinity was revealed to the Chinese more than five
centuries before the advent of Christ. Everybody,
therefore, who knows the strong feeling of the Chinese
for their own teachers, will admit that nothing
more efficient could be found in order to fix the dogmas
of the Christian religion in the mind of the Chinese
than the demonstration that these dogmas agree
with their own books. The study, therefore, and the
translation of this singular book (the Tao-te-king)
would prove most useful to the missionaries, in order
to bring to a happy issue the desired gathering in of
the Apostolic harvest.</q>
</p>

<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>

<p>
What followed is so extraordinary that, though
it has often been related, it deserves to be related
again, more particularly as the whole problem which
was supposed to have been solved once for all by M.
Stanislas Julien, has of late been opened again by
Dr. von Strauss, in the <q>Journal of the German Oriental
Society,</q> 1869.
</p>

<p>
There is a passage at the beginning of the fourteenth
chapter of the Tao-te-king in which Father
Amyot felt certain that the three Persons of the
Trinity could be recognized. He translated it:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>He who is as it were visible but cannot be seen
is called <foreign rend='italic'>Khi</foreign>.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>He whom we cannot hear, and who does not
speak to our ear, is called <foreign rend='italic'>Hi</foreign>.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He who is as it were tangible, but cannot be
touched, is called <foreign rend='italic'>Wei</foreign>.</q>
</p>

<p>
Few readers, I believe, would have been much
startled by this passage, or would have seen in it
what Father Amyot saw. But more startling revelations
were in store. The most celebrated Chinese
scholar of his time, Abel Rémusat, took up the subject;
and after showing that the first of the three
names had to be pronounced, not Khi, but I, he
maintained that the three syllables I Hi Wei, were
meant for <foreign rend='italic'>Je-ho-vah</foreign>. According to him, the three
characters employed in this name have no meaning
in Chinese; they are only signs of sounds foreign to
the Chinese language; and they were intended to
render the Greek Ἰαῶ, the name which, according
to Diodorus Siculus, the Jews gave to their God.
Rémusat goes on to remark that Lao-tse had really
rendered this Hebrew name more accurately than the
Greeks, because he had preserved the aspiration of
<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>
the second syllable, which was lost in Greek. In
fact, he entertained no doubt that this word, occurring
in the work of Lao-tse, proves an intellectual
communication between the West and China, in the
sixth century <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Fortunately, the panic created by this discovery
did not last long. M. Stanislas Julien published in
1842 a complete translation of this difficult book;
and here all traces of the name of Jehovah have disappeared.
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The three syllables,</q> he writes, <q>which Abel
Rémusat considered as purely phonetic and foreign
to the Chinese language, have a very clear and intelligible
meaning, and have been fully explained by
Chinese commentators. The first syllable, I, means
without color; the second, Hi, without sound or
voice; the third, Wei, without body. The proper
translation therefore is:&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>You look (for the Tao, the law) and you see it
not: it is colorless.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>You listen and you hear it not: it is voiceless.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You wish to touch it and you reach it not: it is
without body.</q>
</p>

<p>
Until, therefore, some other traces can be discovered
in Chinese literature proving an intercourse
between China and Judæa in the sixth century <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi>,
we can hardly be called upon to believe that the
Jews should have communicated this one name,
which they hardly trusted themselves to pronounce
at home, to a Chinese philosopher; and we must
treat the apparent similarity between I-Hi-Wei and
Jehovah as an accident, which ought to serve as a
useful warning, though it need in no way discourage
a careful and honest study of Comparative Theology.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='IV. On Spelling.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='IV. On Spelling.'/>
<head type='sub'>IV.</head>
<head>On Spelling.</head>

<p>
The remarks which I venture to offer in these pages
on the corrupt state of the present spelling of English,
and on the advantages and disadvantages connected
with a reform of English orthography, were written
in fulfillment of a promise of very long standing.
Ever since the publication of the Second Volume of
my <q>Lectures on the Science of Language,</q> in 1863,
where I had expressed my sincere admiration for the
courage and perseverance with which Mr. Isaac Pitman
and some of his friends (particularly Mr. A. J.
Ellis, for six years his most active associate) had fought
the battle of a reform in English spelling, Mr. Pitman
had been requesting me to state more explicitly than
I had done in my <q>Lectures</q> my general approval
of his life-long endeavors. He wished more particularly
that I should explain why I, though by profession
an etymologist, was not frightened by the
specter of phonetic spelling, while such high authorities
as Archbishop Trench and Dean Alford had declared
that phonetic spelling would necessarily destroy
the historical and etymological character of the English
language.
</p>

<p>
If I ask myself why I put off the fulfillment of my
<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>
promise from year to year, the principal reason I find
is, that really I had nothing more to say than what,
though in few words, I had said before. Every thing
that can be said on this subject has been said, and well
said, not only by Mr. Pitman, but by a host of writers
and lecturers, among whom I might mention Mr. Alexander
J. Ellis, Dr. Latham, Professors Haldeman,
Whitney, and Hadley, Mr. Withers, Mr. E. Jones, Dr.
J. H. Gladstone, and many others. The whole matter is
no longer a matter for argument; and the older I
grow, the more I feel convinced that nothing vexes
people so much, and hardens them in their unbelief
and in their dogged resistance to reforms, as undeniable
facts and unanswerable arguments. Reforms
are carried by Time, and what generally prevails in
the end, are not logical deductions, but some haphazard
and frequently irrational motives. I do not
say, therefore, with Dean Swift, that <q>there is a degree
of corruption wherein some nations, as bad as the
world is, will proceed to an amendment; till which
time particular men should be quiet.</q> On the contrary,
I feel convinced that practical reformers, like
Mr. Pitman, should never slumber nor sleep. They
should keep their grievances before the public in
season and out of season. They should have their
lamps burning, to be ready whenever the right time
comes. They should repeat the same thing over and
over again, undismayed by indifference, ridicule, contempt,
and all the other weapons which the lazy world
knows so well how to employ against those who venture
to disturb its peace.
</p>

<p>
I myself, however, am not a practical reformer;
least of all in a matter which concerns Englishmen
<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>
only&mdash;namely, the spelling of the English language.
I should much rather, therefore, have left the fight to
others, content with being merely a looker-on. But
when I was on the point of leaving England my conscience
smote me. Though I had not actually given
a pledge, I remembered how, again and again, I had
said to Mr. Pitman that I would much rather keep
than make a promise; and though overwhelmed with
other work at the time, I felt that before my departure
I ought, if possible, to satisfy Mr. Pitman's demands.
The article was written; and though my own
plans have since been changed, and I remain at Oxford,
it may as well be published in discharge of a
debt which has been for some time heavy on my conscience.
</p>

<p>
What I wish most strongly to impress on my readers
is that I do not write as an advocate. I am not
an agitator for phonetic reform in England. My interest
in the matter is, and always has been, purely
theoretical and scientific. Spelling and the reform
of spelling are problems which concern every student
of the science of language. It does not matter whether
the language be English, German, or Dutch. In every
written language the problem of reforming its antiquated
spelling must sooner or later arise; and we
must form some clear notion whether any thing can
be done to remove or alleviate a complaint inherent
in the very life of language. If my friends tell me
that the idea of a reform of spelling is entirely Quixotic,
that it is a mere waste of time to try to influence
a whole nation to surrender its historical orthography
and to write phonetically, I bow to their superior wisdom
as men of the world. But as I am not a man of
<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>
the world, but rather an observer of the world, my
interest in the subject, my convictions as to what is
right and wrong, remain just the same. It is the duty
of scholars and philosophers not to shrink from holding
and expressing what men of the world call Quixotic
opinions; for, if I read the history of the world
rightly, the victory of reason over unreason, and the
whole progress of our race, have generally been
achieved by such fools as ourselves <q>rushing in where
angels fear to tread,</q> till, after a time, the track becomes
beaten, and even angels are no longer afraid.
I hold, and have confessed, much more Quixotic
theories on language than this belief&mdash;that what has
been done before by Spaniards and Dutchmen&mdash;what is
at this very moment being done by Germans, namely,
to reform their corrupt spelling&mdash;may be achieved even
by Englishmen and Americans.
</p>

<p>
I have expressed my belief that the time will come
when not only the various alphabets and systems of
spelling, but many of the languages themselves which
are now spoken in Europe, to say nothing of the rest
of the world, will have to be improved away from the
face of the earth and abolished. Knowing that nothing
rouses the ire of a Welshman or a Gael so much as
to assert the expediency, nay, necessity, of suppressing
the teaching of their languages at school, it seems
madness to hint that it would be a blessing to every
child born in Holland, in Portugal, or in Denmark&mdash;nay,
in Sweden and even in Russia&mdash;if, instead of
learning a language which is for life a barrier between
them and the rest of mankind, they were at once to
learn one of the great historical languages which confer
intellectual and social fellowship with the whole
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
world. If, as a first step in the right direction, four
languages only, namely, English, French, German,
Italian (or possibly Spanish) were taught at school,
the saving of time&mdash;and what is more precious than
time?&mdash;would be infinitely greater than what has been
effected by railways and telegraphs. But I know that
no name in any of the doomed languages would be
too strong to stigmatize such folly. We should be
told that a Japanese only could conceive such an
idea; that for a people deliberately to give up its
language was a thing never heard of before; that a
nation would cease to be a nation if it changed its
language; that it would, in fact, commit <q>the happy
despatch,</q> <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>à la Japonaise</foreign>.
All this may be true, but
I hold that language is meant to be an instrument
of communication, and that in the struggle for life,
the most efficient instrument of communication must
certainly carry the day, as long as natural selection,
or, as we formerly called it, reason, rules the world.
</p>

<p>
The following figures may be of use in forming an
opinion as to the fates of the great languages of
Europe:<note place='foot'>See W. E. A. Axon's <q>The Future of the English Language,</q>
the <q>Almanach de Gotha,</q> and De Candolle's <q>Histoire des
Sciences,</q> 1873.</note>&mdash;
</p>

<p>
Portuguese is spoken in<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Portugal, by 3,980,000<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Brazil, by 10,000,000<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Total: 13,980,000<lb/>
Italian, by 27,524,238<lb/>
French, in France, Belgium, Switzerland, etc., by 40,188,000<lb/>
Spanish, in<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Spain, by 16,301,000<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;South America, by 27,408,082<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Total: 43,709,082<lb/>
<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>
Russian, by 51,370,000<lb/>
German, by 55,789,000<lb/>
English, in<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Europe, by 31,000,000<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;America, by 45,000,000<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Australia, etc., by 2,000,000<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;the Colonies, by 1,050,000<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Total: 79,050,000
</p>

<p>
According to De Candolle, the population doubles in
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{4cm} p{4cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(40) lw(25)'">
<row><cell>England, in</cell><cell>56 years</cell></row>
<row><cell>America, among the German races, in</cell><cell>25 years</cell></row>
<row><cell>Italy, in</cell><cell>135 years</cell></row>
<row><cell>Russia, in</cell><cell>100 years</cell></row>
<row><cell>Spain, in</cell><cell>112 years</cell></row>
<row><cell>South America, in</cell><cell>27-½ years</cell></row>
<row><cell>Germany, in</cell><cell>100 years</cell></row>
<row><cell>France, in</cell><cell>140 years</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
Therefore, in 200 years (barring accidents)
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{4cm} p{4cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(45) lw(20)'">
<row><cell>Italian will be spoken by</cell><cell>53,370,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>French will be spoken by</cell><cell>72,571,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>German will be spoken by</cell><cell>157,480,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Spanish will be spoken in</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>&nbsp;&nbsp;Europe, by</cell><cell>36,938,338</cell></row>
<row><cell>&nbsp;&nbsp;South America, by</cell><cell>468,347,904</cell></row>
<row><cell>&nbsp;&nbsp;Total:</cell><cell>505,286,242</cell></row>
<row><cell>English will be spoken in</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>&nbsp;&nbsp;Europe, by</cell><cell>178,846,153</cell></row>
<row><cell>&nbsp;&nbsp;United States, and British Dependencies, by</cell>
     <cell>1,658,440,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>&nbsp;&nbsp;Total:</cell><cell>1,837,286,153</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
But I shall say no more on this, for as it is, I know
I shall never hear the end of it, and shall go down
to posterity, if for nothing else, at least for this the
most suicidal folly in a student of languages; a folly
comparable only to that of Leibniz, who actually conceived
the possibility of one universal language.
</p>

<p>
To return, however, to the problem to the solution
of which Mr. Pitman has devoted the whole of his
<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>
active life, let me say again that my interest in it is
purely philological; or, if you like, historical. The
problem which has to be solved in England and the
United States of America is not a new one, nor an
isolated one. It occurs again and again in the history
of language; in fact, it must occur. When languages
are reduced to writing, they are at first written phonetically,
though always in a very rough-and-ready
manner. One dialect, that of the dominant, the literary,
or priestly character, is generally selected; and
the spelling, once adopted, becomes in a very short
time traditional and authoritative. What took place
thousands of years ago, we can see taking place, if we
like, at the present moment. A missionary from the
island of Mangaia, the Rev. W. Gill, first introduced
the art of writing among his converts. He learned
their language, at least one dialect of it, he translated
part of the Bible into it, and adopted, of necessity, a
phonetic spelling. That dialect is gradually becoming
the recognized literary language of the whole island,
and his spelling is taught at school. Other dialects,
however, continue to be spoken, and they may in time
influence the literary dialect. For the present, however,
the missionary dialect, as it is called by the
natives themselves, and the missionary spelling, rule
supreme, and it will be some time before a spelling
reform is wanted out there.
</p>

<p>
Among the more ancient nations of Europe, not
only does the pronunciation of language maintain its
inherent dialectic variety, and fluctuate through the
prevalence of provincial speakers, but the whole body
of a language changes, while yet the spelling, once
adopted in public documents, and taught to children,
<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>
remains for a long time the same. In early times,
when literature was in its infancy, when copies of
books could easily be counted, and when the <foreign rend='italic'>norma
scribendi</foreign> was in the hands of a few persons, the difficulty
of adapting the writing to the ever-varying pronunciation
of a language was comparatively small.
We see it when we compare the Latin of early Roman
inscriptions with the Latin of Cicero. We know from
Cicero himself that when he settled among the patricians
of Rome, he had on some small points to change
both his pronunciation and his spelling of Latin.
The reform of spelling was a favorite subject with
Roman scholars, and even emperors were not too
proud to dabble in inventing new letters and diacritical
signs. The difficulty, however, never assumes
serious proportions. The small minority of people
who were able to read and write, pleased themselves
as best they could; and, by timely concessions, prevented
a complete estrangement between the written
and the spoken language.
</p>

<p>
Then came the time when Latin ceased to be Latin,
and the vulgar dialects, such as Italian, French, and
Spanish took its place. At that time the spelling was
again phonetic, though here and there tinged by reminiscences
of Latin spelling. There was much variety,
but considering how limited the literary intercourse
must have been between different parts of France,
Spain, or Italy, it is surprising that on the whole there
should have been so much uniformity in the spelling
of these modern dialects. A certain local and individual
freedom of spelling, however, was retained;
and we can easily detect in mediæval MSS. the spelling
of literate and illiterate writers, the hand of
<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>
the learned cleric, the professional clerk, and the layman.
</p>

<p>
[A style of spelling will now be introduced which
has received the name of Semiphonotypy. It requires
no new letter: <q>[D] [p]</q> for the vowel in <emph>but</emph>, <emph>son</emph>, are
made from <q>D p</q> by a pen-knife. The short vowels,
diphthongs, and consonants are all written phonetically,
except an occasional <q>n</q> = <q>[n]</q> before <hi rend='italic'>k</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>, and
<q>th</q> = both <q>[t]</q> and <q>[dh]</q> leaving only the long
vowels in the old spelling. Six syllables out of seven
are thus written as in full phonotypy. The italic and
script forms of <q>[P [italic form] ]</q> are <q>[p [italic form] ]</q>
(a turned italic <q><hi rend='italic'>a</hi></q>)
and [P p [script form] ].]
</p>

<p>
The great event hwich formz a deseisiv epok in
the histori ov speling iz the introd[p]kshon ov printing.
With printed buks, and partikiularli with printed
Beibelz, skaterd over the k[p]ntri, the speling of w[p]rdz
bekame rijid, and universali beinding. S[p]m langwejez,
s[p]ch az Italian, wer more fortiunate than [p]therz
in having a more rashonal sistem ov speling tu start
with. S[p]m, agen, leik Jerman, wer abel tu make
teimli konseshonz, hweil [p]therz, s[p]ch az Spanish,
D[p]ch, and French, had Akademiz tu help them at
kritikal periodz ov their histori. The most [p]nfortiunate
in all theze respekts woz Inglish. It started
with a Latin alfabet, the pron[p]nsiashon ov hwich woz
[p]nseteld, and hwich had tu be apleid tu a Tiutonik
langwej. After this ferst fonetik kompromeiz it had
tu pas through a konfiúzd sistem ov speling, half Sakson,
half Norman; half fonetik, half tradishonal. The
histori ov the speling, and even ov the pron[p]nsiashon,
ov Inglish, in its pasej from Anglo-Sakson tu midel
<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>
and modern Inglish, haz lateli been st[p]did with
great s[p]kses bei Mr. Ellis and Mr. Sweet. Ei m[p]st
refer tu their buks <q>On Erli Inglish Pron[p]nsiashon,</q>
and <q>On the Histori ov Inglish Soundz,</q>
hwich kontain a welth ov il[p]strashon, almost bewildering.
And even after Inglish reachez the period
ov printing, the konfiuzhon iz bei no meanz terminated;
on the kontrari, for a teim it iz greater than
ever. Hou this kame tu pas haz been wel il[p]strated
bei Mr. Marsh in hiz ekselent <q>Lektiurz on the Inglish Langwej,</q> p. 687,
<hi rend='italic'>seq</hi>.<note place='foot'>The pronoun
<hi rend='italic'>it</hi> woz speld in eight diferent wayz bei Tyndale
th[p]s, <hi rend='italic'>hyt</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>hytt</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>hit</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>hitt</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>it</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>itt</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>yt</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>ytt</hi>.
Another author speld <hi rend='italic'>tongue</hi> in the folowing wayz:
<hi rend='italic'>tung, tong, tunge, tonge, tounge</hi>. The w[p]rd
<hi rend='italic'>head</hi> woz vario[p]sli speld <hi rend='italic'>hed</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>heede</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>hede</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>hefode</hi>. The spelingz <hi rend='italic'>obay</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>survay</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>pray</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>vail</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>vain</hi>, ar often uzed for
<hi rend='italic'>obey</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>survey</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>prey</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>veil</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>vein</hi>.</note> Hwot we nou kall
the establisht sistem ov Inglish orthografi may, in the
main, be trast bak tu Jonson'z Dikshonari, and tu the
stil more kaprishus sway ekserseizd bei larj printing
ofisez and p[p]blisherz. It iz true that the evil ov
printing karid tu a serten ekstent its own remedi. If
the speling bekame [p]nchanjabel, the langwej itself,
too, woz, bei meanz ov a printed literatiur, chekt
konsiderabli in its natiural growth and its dealektik
vareieti. Nevertheles Inglish haz chanjed sins the invenshon
ov printing; Inglish iz chanjing, though bei
imperseptibel degreez, even nou; and if we kompare
Inglish az spoken with Inglish az riten, they seem
almost leik two diferent langwejez; az diferent az
Latin iz from Italian.
</p>

<p>
This, no dout, iz a nashonal misfortiun, but it iz
inevitabel. Litel az we perseive it, langwej iz, and
alwayz m[p]st be, in a state ov fermentashon; and
hwether within hundredz or thouzandz ov yearz, all
<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>
living langwejez m[p]st be prepared tu enkounter the
difik[p]lti hwich in Ingland starez us in the fase at
prezent. <q>Hwot shal we do?</q> ask our frendz. <q>Ther
iz our hole nashonal literatiur,</q> they say, <q>our leibrariz
aktiuali b[p]rsting with buks and nuizpaperz.
Ar all theze tu be thrown away? Ar all valiuabel
buks tu be reprinted? Ar we ourselvz tu [p]nlern hwot
we hav lernd with so much tr[p]bel, and hwot we hav
taught tu our children with greater tr[p]bel stil? Ar
we tu sakrifeiz all that iz historikal in our langwej,
and sink doun tu the low level ov the <hi rend='italic'>Fonetik Nuz</hi>?</q>
Ei kud go on m[p]ltipleiing theze kwestionz til even
thoze men ov the w[p]rld who nou hav onli a shrug
ov the shoulder for the reformerz ov speling shud
say, <q>We had no eidea hou strong our pozishon reali
iz.</q>
</p>

<p>
But with all that, the problem remainz [p]nsolvd.
Hwot ar peopel tu do hwen langwej and pron[p]nsiashon
chanje, hweil their speling iz deklared tu be
[p]nchanjabel? It iz, ei believ, hardli nesesari that ei
shud prove hou kor[p]pt, efete, and [p]terli irrashonal
the prezent sistem ov speling iz, for now[p]n seemz
inkleind tu denei all thát. Ei shal onli kwote, therefor,
the j[p]jment ov w[p]n man, the late Bishop Thirlwall,
a man who never uzed ekzajerated langwej.
<q>Ei luk,</q> he sez <q>[p]pon the establisht sistem, if an
aksidental k[p]stom may be so kalld, az a mas ov
anomaliz, the growth ov ignorans and chans, ekwali
rep[p]gnant tu gud taste and tu komon sens. B[p]t ei
am aware that the p[p]blik kling tu theze anomaliz
with a tenasiti proporshond tu their abs[p]rditi, and ar
jel[p]s ov all enkroachment on ground konsekrated tu
the free play ov bleind kaprise.</q>
</p>

<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>

<p>
It may be useful, houever, tu kwote the testimonialz
ov a fiu praktikal men in order tu show that this
sistem ov speling haz reali bek[p]m w[p]n ov the greatest
nashonal misfortiunz, swolowing [p]p milionz ov m[p]ni
everi year and bleiting all atempts at nashonal ediukashon.
Mr. Edward Jones, a skoolmaster ov
great eksperiens, having then siuperintendens ov
the Heibernian Skoolz, Liverpool, rote, in the year
1868:
</p>

<p>
<q>The G[p]vernment haz for the last twenti yearz
taken ediukashon [p]nder its kare. They diveided the
subjekts ov instr[p]kshon intu siks gradez. The heiest
point that woz atempted in the G[p]vernment Skoolz
woz that a piupil shud be abel tu read with tolerabel
eaze and ekspreshon a pasej from a niuzpaper, and tu
spel the same with a tolerabel amount ov akiurasi.</q>
</p>

<p>
Let [p]s luk at the rez[p]lts az they apear in the report
ov the Komíti ov Kounsil on Ediukashon for
1870-71:
</p>

<p>
Skoolz or Departments [p]nder separate hed teacherz in
Ingland and Walez inspekted diuring the year 31st
August, 1870, 15,287<lb/>
Sertifikated asistant, and piupil  teacherz emploid in
theze skoolz, 28,033<lb/>
Skolarz in daili averej atendans throughout the year, 1,168,981<lb/>
Skolarz prezent on the day ov inspekshon, 1,473,883<lb/>
Skolarz prezented for ekzaminashon:<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;[P]nder ten yearz ov aje, 473,444<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Over ten yearz ov aje, 292,144<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Total: 765,588<lb/>
Skolarz prezented for Standard VI.:<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;[P]nder ten yearz ov aje, 227<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Over ten yearz ov aje, 32,953<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Total: 33,180<lb/>
Skolarz who past in Standard VI.:<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;1. Reading a short paragraf from a niuzpaper, 30,985<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;2. Reiting the same from diktashon, 27,989<lb/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;3. Arithmetik, 22,839
</p>

<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>

<p>
Therfor, les than w[p]n skolar for each teacher, and
les than two skolarz for each skool inspekted, reacht
Standard VI.
</p>

<p>
In 1873 the state ov thingz, akording tu the ofishal
ret[p]rnz ov the Ediukashon Department, woz m[p]ch
the same. Ferst ov all, ther ought tu hav been at
skool 4,600,000 children between the ajez ov three
and therteen. The number ov children on the rejister
ov inspekted skoolz woz 2,218,598. Out ov thát
number, about 200,000 leav skool aniuali, their ediukashon
beïng supozed tu be finisht. Out ov theze
200,000, neinti per sent. leav without reaching the
6th Standard, eighti per sent. without reaching the
5th, and siksti per sent. without reaching the 4th
Standard.
</p>

<p>
The report for 1874-75 showz an inkreas ov children
on the buks, b[p]t the proporshon ov children
pasing in the vari[p]s standardz iz s[p]bstanshali the
same. (See <q>Popiular Ediukashon,</q> bei E. Jones,
B.A., an eks-skoolmaster, 1875.) It iz kalkiulated
that for such rezults az theze the k[p]ntri, hwether bei
taksashon or bei voluntari kontribiushonz, payz nearli
£3,500,000 aniuali.
</p>

<p>
Akording tu the same authoriti, Mr. E. Jones, it
nou takes from siks tu seven yearz tu lern the arts ov
reading and speling with a fair degree ov intelijens&mdash;thát
iz, about 2,000 ourz; and tu meni meindz the
difik[p]ltiz ov orthografi ar ins[p]rmountabel. The bulk
ov the children pas through the G[p]vernment skoolz
without having akweird the abiliti tu read with eaze
and intelijens.
</p>

<p>
<q>An averej cheild,</q> sez anuthcr skoolmaster, <q>begining
skool at seven, ought tu be abel tu read the
<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>
Niu Testament fluentli at eleven or twelv yearz ov
aje, and at therteen or fourteen ought tu be abel tu
read a gud leading artikel with eaze and ekspreshon.</q>
That iz, with seven ourz a week for forti weeks for
feiv yearz, a cheild rekweirz 1,400 ourz' w[p]rk, tu be
abel tu read the Niu Testament.
</p>

<p>
After a kareful ekzaminashon ov y[p]ng men and
wimen from therteen tu twenti yearz ov aje in the
faktoriz ov Birmingham, it woz proved that onli 4-½
per sent. wer abel tu read a simpel sentens from an
ordinari skool-buk with intelijens and akiurasi.
</p>

<p>
This apleiz tu the lower klasez. B[p]t with regard
tu the heier klasez the kase seemz almost w[p]rs; for
Dr. Morell, in hiz <q>Maniual ov Speling,</q> aserts that
out ov 1,972 failiurz in the Sivil Servis Ekzaminashonz
1,866 kandidates wer pl[p]kt for speling.
</p>

<p>
So much for the piupilz. Am[p]ng the teacherz
themselvz it woz found in Amerika that out ov w[p]n
h[p]ndred komon w[p]rdz the best speler am[p]ng the
eighti or neinti teacherz ekzamind faild in w[p]n, s[p]m
preiz-takerz faild in four or feiv, and s[p]m [p]therz mist
over forti. The Depiuti State Siuperintendent deklared
that on an averej the teacherz ov the State
wud fail in speling tu the ekstent ov 25 per sent.
</p>

<p>
Hwot, houever, iz even more seri[p]s than all this
iz not the great waste ov teim in lerning tu read, and
the almost komplete failiur in nashonal ediukashon,
but the aktiual mischef d[p]n bei s[p]bjekting y[p]ng
meindz tu the illojikal and tedi[p]s dr[p]jeri ov lerning
tu read Inglish az speld at prezent. Everithing they
hav tu lern in reading (or pron[p]nsiashon) and speling
iz irrashonal; w[p]n rule kontradikts the [p]ther, and
each statement haz tu be aksepted simpli on authoriti,
<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>
and with a komplete disregard ov all thoze rashonal
instinkts which lei dormant in the cheild, and ought
tu be awakend bei everi keind ov helthi ekserseiz.
</p>

<p>
Ei nó ther ar personz who kan defend enithing,
and who hold that it iz diu tu this veri disiplin that
the Inglish karakter iz hwot it iz; that it retainz respekt
for authoriti; that it d[p]z not rekweir a reazon
for everithing; and that it duz not admit that hwot iz inkonseivabel
iz therefor imposibel. Even Inglish orthodoksi
haz been trast bak tu thát hiden sourse,
bekauz a cheild akustomd tu believe that t-h-o-u-g-h
iz <hi rend='italic'>tho</hi>, and that t-h-r-o-u-g-h iz <hi rend='italic'>throo</hi>,
w[p]d afterwardz believe enithing. It may be so; stil ei dout hwether
even such objekts wud justifei s[p]ch meanz. Lord
Lytton sez, <q>A more leiing, round-about, p[p]zel-heded
deluzhon than thát bei hwich we konfiúz the klear
instinkts ov truth in our ak[p]rsed sistem ov speling
woz never konkokted bei the father ov fol·shud....
Hou kan a sistem ov ediukashon fl[p]rish that beginz
bei so monstr[p]s a fols·hud, hwich the sens ov hearing
s[p]feisez tu kontradikt?</q>
</p>

<p>
Though it may seem a w[p]rk ov siupererogashon tu
bring forward stil more fakts in s[p]port ov the jeneral
kondemnashon past on Inglish speling, a fiu ekstrakts
from a pamflet bei Mr. Meiklejohn, late Asistant-Komishoner
ov the Endoud Skoolz Komishon for
Skotland, may here feind a plase.
</p>

<p>
<q>Ther ar therteen diferent wayz ov reprezenting the
sound ov long <hi rend='italic'>o</hi>:&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>note</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>boat</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>toe</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>yeoman</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>soul</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>row</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>sew</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>hautboy</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>beau</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>owe</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>floor</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>oh!</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>O!</hi></q>
</p>

<p>
And agen (p. 16),
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Double-you-aitch-eye-see-aitch is <hi rend='italic'>which</hi><lb/>
Tea-are-you-tea-aitch is <hi rend='italic'>truth</hi><lb/>
Bee-o-you-gee-aitch is <hi rend='italic'>bough</hi><lb/>
<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>
See-are-eh-bee is <hi rend='italic'>crab</hi><lb/>
Bee-ee-eh-see-aitch is <hi rend='italic'>beach</hi><lb/>
Oh-you-gee-aitch-tee is <hi rend='italic'>ought</hi><lb/>
Oh-enn-see-ee is <hi rend='italic'>once</hi></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Or, tu sum up the hole indeitment agenst the kulprit:
1. Out ov the twenti-siks leterz, onli eight ar
true, fikst, and permanent kwolitiz&mdash;thát iz, are true
both tu eí and ear. 2. Ther ar therti-eight distinkt
soundz in our spoken langwej; and ther ar about 400
distinkt simbolz (simpel and kompound) tu reprezent
theze therti-eight soundz. In [p]ther wurdz, ther ar
400 servants tu do the w[p]rk ov therti-eight. 3. Ov
the twenti-siks leterz, fifteen hav akweird a habit ov
heiding themselvz. They ar riten and printed; b[p]t
the ear haz no akount ov them; such ar <hi rend='italic'>w</hi> in
<hi rend='italic'>wrong</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>gh</hi> in
<hi rend='italic'>right</hi>. 4. The vouel soundz ar printed in
diferent wayz; a long o, for ekzampel, haz therteen
printed simbolz tu reprezent it. 5. Fourteen vouel
soundz hav 190 printed simbolz atácht tu their servis.
6. The singel vouel e haz feiv diferent funkshonz; it
ought onli tu hav w[p]n. 7. Ther ar at least 1,300
w[p]rdz in hwich the simbol and the sound ar at varians&mdash;in
hwich the w[p]rd iz not sounded az it iz printed.
8. Ov theze 1,300, 800 ar monosilabelz&mdash;the komonest
w[p]rdz, and s[p]pozed tu be eazier for children. 9. The
hole langwej ov k[p]ntri children leiz within theze
w[p]rdz; and meni agrikultiural laborerz go from the
kradel tu the grave with a stok ov no more than 500
w[p]rdz.</q>
</p>

<p>
The kwestion, then, that wil hav tu be anserd sooner
or later iz this:&mdash;Kan this unsistematik sistem ov speling
Inglish be aloud tu go on for ever? Iz everi
Inglish cheild, az kompared with [p]ther children, tu be
m[p]lkted in two or three yearz ov hiz leif in order tu
<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>
lern it? Ar the lower klasez tu go through skool
without lerning tu read and reit their own langwej intelijentli?
And iz the kuntri tu pay milionz everi
year for this [p]ter failiur ov nashonal ediukashon?
Ei do not believ that s[p]ch a state ov thingz wil be
aloud tu kontiniu for ever, partikiularli az a remedi
iz at hand&mdash;a remidi that haz nou been tested for
twenti or therti yearz, and that haz anserd ekstremli
wel. Ei mean Mr. Pitman'z sistem ov fonetik reiting,
az apleid tu Inglish. Ei shal not enter here intu
eni miniút disk[p]shon ov fonetiks, or re-open the
kontroversi hwich haz arizen between the advokets ov
diferent sistemz ov fonetik reiting. Ov kourse, ther
ar diferent degreez ov ekselens in diferent sistemz ov
fonetik speling; but even the w[p]rst ov theze sistemz
iz infinitli siuperior tu the tradishonal speling.
</p>

<p>
Ei giv Mr. Pitman'z alfabet, hwich komprehendz
the therti-siks broad tipikal soundz ov the Inglish
langwej, and aseinz tu each a definit sein. With theze
therti-siks seinz, Inglish kan be riten rashonali and
red eazili; and, hwot iz most important, it haz been
proved bei an eksperiens ov meni yearz, bei niumer[p]s
p[p]blikashonz, and bei praktikal eksperiments in teaching
both children and ad[p]lts, that such a sistem az
Mr. Pitman'z iz perfektli praktikal.
</p>

<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>

<p>
THE PHONETIC ALPHABET.
</p>

<p>
The phonetic letters in the first column are pronounced like the
italic letters in the words that follow. The last column contains
the <emph>names</emph> of the letters.
</p>

<p>
CONSONANTS.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Mutes.</hi>
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(20) lw(20) lw(20)'">
<row><cell>P p</cell><cell>ro<hi rend='italic'>p</hi>e</cell><cell>p[i]</cell></row>
<row><cell>B b</cell><cell>ro<hi rend='italic'>b</hi>e</cell><cell>b[i]</cell></row>
<row><cell>T t</cell><cell>fa<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>e</cell><cell>t[i]</cell></row>
<row><cell>D d</cell><cell>fa<hi rend='italic'>d</hi>e</cell><cell>d[i]</cell></row>
<row><cell>[Ch] [ch]</cell><cell>e<hi rend='italic'>tch</hi></cell>
     <cell>[ch][e]</cell></row>
<row><cell>J j</cell><cell>e<hi rend='italic'>dg</hi>e</cell><cell>j[e]</cell></row>
<row><cell>K k</cell><cell>lee<hi rend='italic'>k</hi></cell><cell>k[e]</cell></row>
<row><cell>G g</cell><cell>le<hi rend='italic'>ag</hi>ue</cell><cell>g[e]</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Continuants.</hi>
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(20) lw(20) lw(20)'">
<row><cell>F f</cell><cell>sa<hi rend='italic'>f</hi>e</cell><cell>ef</cell></row>
<row><cell>V v</cell><cell>sa<hi rend='italic'>v</hi>e</cell><cell>v[i]</cell></row>
<row><cell>[T] [t]</cell><cell>wrea<hi rend='italic'>th</hi></cell>
     <cell>i[t]</cell></row>
<row><cell>[Dh] [dh]</cell><cell>wrea<hi rend='italic'>th</hi>e</cell>
     <cell>[dh][i]</cell></row>
<row><cell>S s</cell><cell>hi<hi rend='italic'>ss</hi></cell><cell>es</cell></row>
<row><cell>Z z</cell><cell>hi<hi rend='italic'>s</hi></cell><cell>z[i]</cell></row>
<row><cell>[Sh] [sh]</cell><cell>vi<hi rend='italic'>ci</hi>ous</cell>
     <cell>i[sh]</cell></row>
<row><cell>[Z] [Z]</cell><cell>vi<hi rend='italic'>si</hi>on</cell>
     <cell>[z][i]</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Nasals.</hi>
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(20) lw(20) lw(20)'">
<row><cell>M m</cell><cell>see<hi rend='italic'>m</hi></cell><cell>em</cell></row>
<row><cell>N n</cell><cell>see<hi rend='italic'>n</hi></cell><cell>en</cell></row>
<row><cell>[N] [n]</cell><cell>si<hi rend='italic'>ng</hi></cell><cell>i[n]</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Liquids.</hi>
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(20) lw(20) lw(20)'">
<row><cell>L l</cell><cell>fa<hi rend='italic'>ll</hi></cell><cell>el</cell></row>
<row><cell>R r</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>r</hi>a<hi rend='italic'>r</hi>e</cell>
     <cell>ar</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Coalescents.</hi>
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(20) lw(20) lw(20)'">
<row><cell>W w</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>w</hi>et</cell><cell>w[e]</cell></row>
<row><cell>Y y</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>y</hi>et</cell><cell>y[e]</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Aspirate.</hi>
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(20) lw(20) lw(20)'">
<row><cell>H h</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>h</hi>ay</cell><cell>[e][ch]</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
VOWELS.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Guttural.</hi>
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(20) lw(20) lw(20)'">
<row><cell>A a</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>a</hi>m</cell><cell>at</cell></row>
<row><cell>[A] [a]</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>al</hi>ms</cell><cell>[a]</cell></row>
<row><cell>E e</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>e</hi>ll</cell><cell>et</cell></row>
<row><cell>[E] [e]</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>a</hi>le</cell><cell>[e]</cell></row>
<row><cell>I i</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>i</hi>ll</cell><cell>it</cell></row>
<row><cell>[I] [i]</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>ee</hi>l</cell><cell>[i]</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Labial.</hi>
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(20) lw(20) lw(20)'">
<row><cell>O o</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>o</hi>n</cell><cell>ot</cell></row>
<row><cell>[W] [w]</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>a</hi>ll</cell><cell>[w]</cell></row>
<row><cell>[U] [u]</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>u</hi>p</cell><cell>[u]t</cell></row>
<row><cell>[O] [o]</cell><cell><hi rend='italic'>o</hi>pe</cell><cell>[o]</cell></row>
<row><cell>U u</cell><cell>f<hi rend='italic'>u</hi>ll</cell><cell>ut</cell></row>
<row><cell>[Ue] [ue]</cell><cell> f<hi rend='italic'>oo</hi>d</cell>
     <cell>[ue]</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Diphthongs</hi>: Ei ei, IU iu, OU ou, AI ai, OI oi,
as heard in b<hi rend='italic'>y</hi>, ne<hi rend='italic'>w</hi>,
no<hi rend='italic'>w</hi>, K<hi rend='italic'>ai</hi>ser, b<hi rend='italic'>oy</hi>.
</p>

<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>

<p>
[In the next fourteen pages, five of the new letters
will be employed, viz., [a], [u], [t], [z], [n], for the sounds
represented by the italic letters in f<hi rend='italic'>a</hi>ther,
<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>on, b<hi rend='italic'>u</hi>t,
<hi rend='italic'>th</hi>in, vi<hi rend='italic'>si</hi>on, si<hi rend='italic'>ng</hi>.]
</p>

<p>
Nou ei ask eni intelijent reader who d[u]z not [t]i[n]k
that everi[t]i[n] niu and stranje iz, <hi rend='italic'>ipso facto</hi>, ridikiul[u]s
and abs[u]rd, hwether after a fiu dayz' praktis, he or
she wud not read and reit I[n]glish, akordi[n] tu Mr.
Pitman'z sistem, with perfekt eaze? Ov kourse it
takes more than feiv minits tu master it, and more
than feiv minits tu form an opinion ov its merits.
B[u]t admiti[n] even that peopel ov a serten aje shud
feind this niu alfabet tr[u]bels[u]m, we m[u]st not forget
that no reform kan be karid out without a jenerashon
or two ov marterz; and hwot true reformerz
hav tu [t]i[n]k ov iz not themselvz, b[u]t thoze who k[u]m
after them&mdash;thoze, in fakt, who ar nou growi[n] [u]p tu
inherit hereafter, hwether they leik it or not, all the
gud and all the evil hwich we chooz tu leav tu them.
</p>

<p>
It meit be sed, houever, that Mr. Pitman'z sistem,
bei[n] enteirli fonetik, iz too radikal a reform, and that
meni and the w[u]rst irregiularitiz in I[n]glish speli[n]
kud be removed without goï[n] kweit so far. The
prinsipel that haf a loaf iz beter than no bred iz not
without s[u]m tru[t], and in meni kasez we nó that a
polisi ov kompromeiz haz been prod[u]ktiv ov veri gud
rez[u]lts. B[u]t, on the [u]ther hand, this haf-harted
polisi haz often retarded a real and komplete reform
ov ekzisti[n] abiúsez; and in the kase ov a reform ov
<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>
speli[n], ei almost dout hwether the difik[u]ltiz inherent
in haf-me[z]urz ar not az great az the difik[u]ltiz ov
karii[n] a komplete reform. If the w[u]rld iz not redi
for reform, let [u]s wait. It seemz far beter, and at
all events far more onest, tu wait til it iz redi than
tu kari the rel[u]ktant wurld with you a litel way, and
then tu feind that all the impulsiv forse iz spent, and
the greater part ov the abiúsez establisht on fermer
ground than ever.
</p>

<p>
Mr. Jones,<note place='foot'>Popular Education&mdash;A Revision of
English Spelling a National Necessity. By E. Jones, B.A. London,
1875.</note> who reprezents the konsiliatori reformerz
ov speli[n], wud be satisfeid with a moderet
skeme ov speli[n] reform, in hwich, bei obzervi[n] analoji
and folowi[n] presedent in olteri[n] a komparativli small
n[u]mber ov w[u]rdz, it wud be posibel tu simplifei ortografi
tu a konsiderabel ekstent without apleii[n] eni
niu prinsipel, or introdiúsi[n] niu leterz, and yet tu rediús
the teim and labor in teachi[n] readi[n] and speli[n]
bei at least w[u]n-haf. It meit at all events be posibel
tu setel the speli[n] ov thoze two or three touzand
w[u]rdz hwich at prezent ar speld diferentli bei diferent
au[t]oritiz. This skeme, advokated bei Mr. Jones, iz
sertenli veri klever; and if it had a chans ov s[u]kses,
ei meiself shud konsider it a great step in adváns.
Mei onli dout iz hwether, in a kase leik this, a small
me[z]ur ov reform wud be karid more eazili than a
komplete reform. It iz diferent in Jerman, hwere
the diseaz haz not spred so far. Here the Komíti
<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>
apointed bei G[u]vernment tu konsider the kwestion
ov a reform ov speli[n] haz deklared in favor ov s[u]m
s[u]ch moderet prinsipelz az Mr. Jones advokates for
I[n]glish. In I[n]glish, houever, the difik[u]ti leiz in
chanji[n] eni[t]i[n]; and if the prinsipel ov eni chanje iz
w[u]ns admited, it wud reali be eazier, ei believ, tu
begin <hi rend='italic'>de novo</hi> than tu chanje s[u]m[t]i[n], and leav the
rest [u]nchanjed.
</p>

<p>
Let [u]s nou see hou Mr. Pitman'z or eni similar
sistem ov fonetik reiti[n] haz w[u]rkt hwere it haz been
put tu the test.
</p>

<p>
Mr. William White reits: <q>Ei speak from eksperiens.
Ei hav taught poor children in Glasgow
tu read the Sermon on the Mount after a kourse ov
ekserseizez ekstendi[n] over no more than siks ourz.</q>
</p>

<p>
The folowi[n] iz an ekstrakt from a leter riten s[u]m
teim ago bei the late Mr. William Colbourne, manajer
ov the Dorset Ba[n]k at St[u]rminster, tu a frend ov
hiz a skoolmaster. He sez:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>Mei litel Sidney, who iz nou a fiu m[u]n[t]s more
than four yearz old, wil read eni fonetik buk without
the sleitest hezitashon; the hardest namez or the
lo[n]gest w[u]rdz in the Old or Niu Testament form no
obstakel tu him. And hou lo[n] do you [t]ink it tuk
me (for ei am hiz teacher) tu impart tu him this
pouer? Hwei s[u]m[t]i[n] les than eight ourz! You
may believ it or not, az you leik, b[u]t ei am konfident
that not more than that amount ov teim woz spent
on him, and that woz in snachez ov feiv minits at a
<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>
teim, hweil tea woz geti[n] redi. Ei no you wil be
inkleind tu say, <q>All that iz veri wel, b[u]t hwot iz
the use ov readi[n] fonetik buks? he iz stil az far of,
and may be farther, from readi[n] romanik buks.</q> B[u]t
in this you ar mistaken. Take an[u]ther ekzampel.
Hiz nekst elder br[u]ther, a boi ov siks yearz, haz had
a fonetik ediukashon so far. Hwot iz the konsekwens?
Hwei, readin in the ferst staje woz so deleitful
and eazi a [t]i[n] tu him that he taught himself
tu read romanikali, and it wud be a difik[u]lt mater
tu feind w[u]n boi in twenti, ov a korespondi[n] aje, that
kud read haf so wel az he kan in eni buk. Agen,
mei oldest boi haz riten more fonetik shorthand and
lo[n]hand, perhaps, than eni boi ov hiz aje (eleven
yearz) in the ki[n]dom; and now[u]n ei daresay haz
had les tu do with that abs[u]rditi ov abs[u]rditiz, the
speli[n]-buk! He iz nou at a ferst-rate skool in Wiltshire,
and in the haf-year presedi[n] Kristmas, he
karid of the preiz for or[t]ografi in a kontest with
boiz s[u]m ov them hiz seniorz bei yearz!</q>
</p>

<p>
Bei the adopshon ov the fonetik alfabet, the difik[u]ltiz
that lei in the way ov forenerz lerni[n] I[n]glish,
also wud be d[u]n away with. The Rev. Newman
Hall reits, <q>Ei met with a Danish jentelman the
[u]ther day who heili preizd the I[n]glish fonotipik Niu
Testament. It had been ov great use tu him, and
<emph>enabeld him tu read [buks in the komon speli[n]]
without an instr[u]kter</emph>, removi[n] the greatest obstakel
in akweiri[n] I[n]glish, the monstr[u]s anomali[z] ov
<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>
pron[u]nsiashon.</q> Ekzampelz leik theze go a lo[n]
way.
</p>

<p>
Mr. A. J. Ellis, than whom now[u]n haz labord
more devotidli for a reform ov speli[n], az a ferst step
in a reform ov nashonal ediukashon, and who haz
himself elaborated several most injeni[u]s sistemz ov
fonetik reiti[n], givz [u]s the folowi[n] az the rez[u]ltz ov
hiz praktikal eksperiens:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>With the fonetik sistem ov speli[n], the Primer iz
masterd within tree m[u]n[t]s at most. The children
then proseed tu praktis this fonetik readi[n] for s[u]m
teim, til they kan read with fluensi from the jeneral
luk ov the w[u]rd, and not from konsideri[n] the pouerz
ov its leterz. [T]ree m[u]n[t]s more, at most, ar rekweird
for this staje.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Hwen this pouer ov fluent readi[n] in fonetik print
iz akweird, buks in the ordinari print, suited tu their
kapasitiz, ar tu be put intu the children'z handz
and they ar told tu read them. Each w[u]rd hwich
they fail tu ges iz told them immedietli; but it iz
found that children ar mostli abel tu read the ordinari
print without eni f[u]rther instr[u]kshon. The teim
nesesari for kompleti[n] this step may be taken, at
the lo[n]gest, az two m[u]n[t]s, so that the hole teim ov
lerni[n] tu read in the ordinari print, on the Readi[n]
Reform sistem, may be rekond az feiv ourz a week
for eight m[u]n[t]s. The hole task haz, in meni kasez,
been akomplisht in les teim, even in [t]ree m[u]n[t]s. On
the [u]ther hand, in w[u]n skool hwere it iz uzed, eleven
<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>
m[u]nts ar okupeid, az the master feindz it advantaj[u]s
in [u]ther respekts tu keep the piupil lo[n]ger at
fonetik readi[n] B[u]t onli w[u]n our a day iz rekweired.</q>
Mr. Ellis s[u]mz [u]p az folowz:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Kareful eksperiments in teachi[n] children ov vari[u]s
ajez and ra[n]ks, and even pauperz and kriminal ad[u]lts,
hav establisht&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>1. That piupilz may be taught tu read buks in
fonetik print, slowli b[u]t shureli, in from ten tu forti
ourz, and will atain konsiderabel fluensi after a fiu
weeks' praktis.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>2. That hwen the piupilz hav ataind fluensi in
readi[n] from fonetik print, a veri fiu ourz wil s[u]feis
tu giv them the same fluensi in readi[n] ordinari print.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>3. That the hole teim nesesari for imparti[n] a nolej
ov bo[t] fonetik and ordinari readi[n] d[u]z not ekseed
eight m[u]nts for children ov averaj intelijens, between
four and feiv yearz ov aje, taught in klas, at skool,
not more than haf-an-our tu an our each day; and
that in this teim an abiliti tu read iz akweird siuperior
tu that u[z]uali ataind in two or [t]ree teimz the period
on the old plan; hweil the pron[u]nsiashion ov the
piupil iz m[u]ch improved, hiz interest in hiz st[u]diz iz
kept aleiv, and a lojikal traini[n] ov endiuri[n] valiu iz
given tu hiz meind bei the habitual analisis and sin[t]ensis
ov spoken soundz.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>4. That thoze taught tu read in this maner akweir
the art ov ordinari speli[n] more redili than thoze instr[u]kted
on the old me[t]od.</q>
</p>

<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>

<p>
Tu all who no Mr. A. J. Ellis, this evidens wil be
be s[u]fishent az tu the praktikal usefulnes ov the
Fonetik Sistem ov speli[n]. Tu thoze who wish for
more evidens ei rekomend a pamflet bei Mr. G.
Withers, <q>The I[n]glish La[n]gwej Speld az Pronounst,</q>
1874; and w[u]n bei Dr. J. W. Martin,
<q>The Gordian Not K[u]t,</q> 1875, hwere they wil feind
the konk[u]rent testimoni ov praktikal teacherz in
I[n]gland, Skotland, Eirland, and Amerika, all agreei[n]
that, bo[t] az a praktikal and a lojikal traini[n], the
Fonetik Sistem haz proved the greatest s[u]kses.
</p>

<p>
Ther remainz, therefor, this w[u]n objekshon onli,
that hwotever the praktikal, and hwotever the [t]eoretikal
advantejez ov the fonetik sistem may be, it wud
[u]terli destroi the historikal or etimolojikal karakter
ov the I[n]glish la[n]gwej.
</p>

<p>
S[u]poze it did; hwot then? The Reformashon iz
s[u]pozed tu hav destroid the historikal karakter ov
the I[n]glish Ch[u]rch, and that sentimental grievans iz
stil felt bei s[u]m stiudents ov ekleziastikal antikwitiz.
B[u]t did I[n]gland, did all the reali progresiv nashonz
ov Europe, alou this sentimental grievans tu outweigh
the praktikal and [t]eoretikal advantejez ov
Protestant Reform? La[n]gwej iz not made for skolarz
and etimolojists; and if the hole rase ov I[n]glish
etimolojists wer reali tu be swept away bei the introd[u]kshon
ov a Speli[n] Reform, ei hope they wud be
the ferst tu rejois in sakrifeizi[n] themselvz in so gud
a kauz.
</p>

<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>

<p>
B[u]t iz it reali the kase that the historikal kontiniúiti
ov the I[n]glish la[n]gwej wud bei broken bei the
adopshon ov fonetik speli[n], and that the profeshon
ov the etimolojist wud be gon for ever? Ei say No,
most emfatikali, tu bo[t] propozishonz. If the seiens
ov la[n]gwej haz proved eni[t]i[n], it haz proved that all
la[n]gwejez chanje akordi[n] tu law, and with konsiderabel
uniformiti. If, therefor, the reiti[n] folowd <hi rend='italic'>pari passu</hi>,
on the chanjez in pron[u]nsiashon, hwot iz kalld the
etimolojikal konsh[u]snes ov the speakerz and the readerz&mdash;ei
speak, ov kourse, ov ediukated peopel onli&mdash;wud
not s[u]fer in the least. If we retain the feeli[n]
ov an etimolojikal konekshon between <emph>gentlemanly</emph>
and <emph>gentlemanlike</emph>, we shud shureli retain it hwether
we reit <emph>gentlemanly</emph> or <emph>gentelmanli</emph>. If we feel that
<hi rend='italic'>think</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>thought</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>bring</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>brought</hi>, buy and
<hi rend='italic'>bought</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>freight</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>fraught</hi>, belo[n] tugether, shud
we feel it les if we rote <hi rend='italic'>t[w]t</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>br[w]t</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>b[w]t</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>fr[w]t</hi>? If, in
speaki[n], thoze who no Latin retain the feeli[n] that
w[u]rdz endin in -<hi rend='italic'>ation</hi> korespond tu Latin w[u]rdz in
-<hi rend='italic'>atio</hi>, wud they looz the feeli[n] if they saw the same
w[u]rdz speld with <hi rend='italic'>[e][sh]on</hi>, or even <q>-e[sh][u]n?</q> Do they
not rekogneiz Latin -<hi rend='italic'>itia</hi>, in -<hi rend='italic'>ice</hi>;
or -<hi rend='italic'>ilis</hi> in -<hi rend='italic'>le</hi>, az in
-<hi rend='italic'>able</hi> (Latin <hi rend='italic'>abilis</hi>)?
If the skolar noz, at w[u]ns, that s[u]ch w[u]rdz az <hi rend='italic'>barbarous</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>anxious</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>circus</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>genius</hi>, ar ov Latin oriji[n], wud he hezitate if the last
silabel in all ov them wer uniformli riten <q>[u]s?</q> Nay,
iz not the prezent speli[n] ov <hi rend='italic'>barbarous</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>anxious</hi>
enteirli misleadi[n], bei konfoundi[n] w[u]rdz endi[n] in
<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>
<hi rend='italic'>-osus</hi>, s[u]ch az <hi rend='italic'>famous</hi>
(<hi rend='italic'>famosus</hi>) with w[u]rdz endi[n]
in <hi rend='italic'>-us</hi>, leik <hi rend='italic'>barbarous</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>anxious</hi>, ets.? Bekauz the
Italianz reit <hi rend='italic'>filosofo</hi>, ar they les aware than the
I[n]glish, who reit <hi rend='italic'>philosopher</hi>, and the French, who
reit <hi rend='italic'>philosophe</hi>, that they hav before them the Latin
<hi rend='italic'>philosophus</hi>, the Greek φιλόσοφος? If we reit
<hi rend='italic'>f</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>fansi</hi>, hwei not in
<hi rend='italic'>phantom</hi>? If in <hi rend='italic'>frenzy</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>frantic</hi>, hwei not in <hi rend='italic'>phrenology</hi>?
A la[n]gwej hwich tolerates <hi rend='italic'>vial</hi> for <hi rend='italic'>phial</hi>,
need not shiver at <hi rend='italic'>filosofer</hi>. Everi
eidiukated speaker nóz that s[u]ch w[u]rdz az <hi rend='italic'>honour</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>ardour</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>colour</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>odour</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>labour</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>vigour</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>error</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>emperor</hi>, hav past from Latin tu French, and from
French tu I[n]glish. Wud he nó it les if all wer speld
aleik, s[u]ch az <hi rend='italic'>onor</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>onorable</hi>),
<hi rend='italic'>ardor</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>vigor</hi>
(<hi rend='italic'>vigorous</hi>), <hi rend='italic'>labor</hi>
(<hi rend='italic'>laborious</hi>), or even <q>on[u]r, ard[u]r, vig[u]r?</q>
The old speli[n] ov <hi rend='italic'>emperor</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>doctor</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>governor</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>error</hi>, woz
<hi rend='italic'>emperour</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>doctour</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>governour</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>errour</hi>.
If theze kud be chanjed, hwei not the rest? Spenser haz <hi rend='italic'>neibor</hi>
for <hi rend='italic'>neighbor</hi>, and
it iz difik[u]lt tu say hwot woz gaind bei chanji[n] <hi rend='italic'>-bor</hi>
intu <hi rend='italic'>-bour</hi> in s[u]ch piurli Sakson w[u]rdz az
<hi rend='italic'>neighbor</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>harbor</hi>. No dout if we see
<hi rend='italic'>laugh</hi> riten with <hi rend='italic'>gh</hi> at
the end, thoze who nó Jerman ar at w[u]ns remeinded
ov its etimolojikal konekshon with the Jerman <hi rend='italic'>lachen</hi>;
b[u]t we shud soon nó the same bei analoji, if we found
not onli <q>laf,</q> b[u]t <q>kof</q> for <hi rend='italic'>cough</hi> (Jerman,
<hi rend='italic'>keuchen</hi>), en[u]f for <hi rend='italic'>enough</hi>
(Jerman, <hi rend='italic'>genug</hi>),
ets. In <q>draft,</q> fonetik speli[n] haz nearli s[u]planted
the so-kalld historikal speli[n] <hi rend='italic'>draught</hi>; in <q>dwarf</q>
<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>
(<hi rend='italic'>dwergh</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>thweorh</hi>) and in <q>ruff</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>rough</hi>), altugether.
</p>

<p>
Hwot peopel kall the etimolojikal konsh[u]snes ov
the speaker iz striktli a mater ov oratorikal sentiment
onli, and it wud remain nearli az stro[n] az it iz
nou, hwotever speli[n] be adopted. B[u]t even if it
shud s[u]fer here and there, we ought tu bear in meind
that, eksept for oratorikal p[u]rposez, that konsh[u]snes,
konfeind az it iz tu a veri fiu ediukated peopel, iz ov
veri small importans, [u]nles it haz ferst been korekted
bei a strikt etimolojikal disiplin. Without that, it
often dejenerates intu hwot iz kalld <q>popiular etimoloji,</q>
and aktiuali tendz, in s[u]m kasez, tu vishiate
the korekt speli[n] ov w[u]rdz.
</p>

<p>
Ei hav frekwentli dwelt on this before, in order tu
show hou, hwot iz nou kalld the etimolojikal or historikal
speli[n] ov w[u]rdz iz, in meni kasez, [u]terli [u]netimolojikal
and [u]nhistorikal. We spel to <hi rend='italic'>delight</hi>,
and th[u]s indiús meni peopel tu believ that this w[u]rd
iz s[u]mhou konekted with <hi rend='italic'>light</hi> [lux], or
<hi rend='italic'>light</hi> [levis]; hwereaz the old speli[n] woz
<hi rend='italic'>to delyt</hi> or to <hi rend='italic'>delite</hi>
(Tyndale), reprezenti[n] the old French <hi rend='italic'>deleiter</hi>. On
the [u]ther hand, we feind for <hi rend='italic'>quite</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>smite</hi>, the old speli[n] <hi rend='italic'>quight</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>smight</hi>, hwich may be old and
historikal, b[u]t iz deseidedli [u]netimolojikal.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Sovereign</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>foreign</hi> ar speld az if they
wer konekted with <hi rend='italic'>reign</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>regnum</hi>; the true
etimoloji ov the former beï[n] <hi rend='italic'>superanus</hi>, Old French,
<hi rend='italic'>sovrain</hi>, Old I[n]glish, <hi rend='italic'>soveraine</hi>;
hweil <hi rend='italic'>foreign</hi> iz the late Latin
<pb n='161'/><anchor id='Pg161'/>
<hi rend='italic'>foraneus</hi>; Old French <hi rend='italic'>forain</hi>; Old I[n]glish
<hi rend='italic'>forein</hi>. And hwei du we reit <hi rend='italic'>to feign</hi>?
Archbishop Trench (<q>I[n]glish Past and Prezent,</q> p. 238) [t]i[n]ks the
<hi rend='italic'>g</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>feign</hi> iz elokwent tu the eí; b[u]t
its elokwens iz misleadi[n]. <hi rend='italic'>Feign</hi> iz not taken from Latin
<hi rend='italic'>fingo</hi>, az litel az <hi rend='italic'>honour</hi> iz taken from
Latin <hi rend='italic'>honor</hi>. <hi rend='italic'>Feign</hi>
k[u]mz from the Old French <hi rend='italic'>faindre</hi>; it woz in Old
I[n]glish <hi rend='italic'>faynen</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>feynen</hi>, and it woz
therefor a mere etimolojikal feint tu insert the <hi rend='italic'>g</hi> ov the Latin
<hi rend='italic'>fingo</hi>, and the French <hi rend='italic'>feignant</hi>. The Old
I[n]glish <hi rend='italic'>shammfasst</hi> (Orm.), formd leik
<hi rend='italic'>stedefasst</hi> (stedfast), iz nou speld
<hi rend='italic'>shamefaced</hi>, az if it had s[u]m[t]i[n] tu do
with a bl[u]shi[n] fase. <hi rend='italic'>Aghast</hi>, insted ov Old I[n]glish
<hi rend='italic'>agast</hi>, iz s[u]pozed tu luk more freitful bekauz it remeindz
[u]s ov <hi rend='italic'>ghost</hi>. The French <hi rend='italic'>lanterne</hi> woz
riten <hi rend='italic'>lant-horn</hi>, az if it had been so kalld from the
transparent sheets ov horn that enklozed the leit.
The <hi rend='italic'>s</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>island</hi> owez its orijin tu a
mistaken belief that the w[u]rd iz konekted with <hi rend='italic'>isle</hi>
(<hi rend='italic'>insula</hi>), hwereaz it iz the A[n]glo-Sakson
<hi rend='italic'>eáland</hi> (Jerman <hi rend='italic'>eiland</hi>), that
iz, water-land. The speli[n] <hi rend='italic'>iland</hi> woz stil k[u]rent in
Shakspere'z teim. In <hi rend='italic'>aisle</hi>, too, the <hi rend='italic'>s</hi> iz
[u]netimolojikal, though it iz historikal, az havi[n] been taken
over from the Old French <hi rend='italic'>aisle</hi>.
</p>

<p>
This tendensi tu olter the speli[n] in order tu impart
tu a w[u]rd, at all hazardz, an etimolojikal karakter,
beginz even in Latin, hwere <hi rend='italic'>postumus</hi>, a siuperlativ
ov <hi rend='italic'>post</hi>, woz s[u]mteimz riten <hi rend='italic'>posthumus</hi>,
az if, hwen apleid tu a late-born s[u]n, it woz dereivd from <hi rend='italic'>humus</hi>.
<pb n='162'/><anchor id='Pg162'/>
In I[n]glish, this fols speli[n] iz retaind in <hi rend='italic'>posthumous</hi>.
<hi rend='italic'>Cena</hi> woz speld bei peopel who wonted tu show their
nolej ov Greek <hi rend='italic'>cœna</hi>, az if konekted with κοινή,
hwich it iz not.
</p>

<p>
B[u]t nou let [u]s luk more karefuli intu the far more
important statement, that the I[n]glish la[n]gwej, if riten
fonetikali, wud reali looz its historikal and etimolojikal
karakter. The ferst kwestion iz, in hwot sens
kan the prezent speli[n] ov I[n]glish be kalld historikal?
We hav onli tu go bak a veri short way in order tu
see the modern [u]pstart karakter ov hwot iz kalld
historikal speli[n]. We nou reit <hi rend='italic'>pleasure</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>measure</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>feather</hi>, b[u]t not veri
lo[n] ago, in Spenser'z teim, theze w[u]rdz wer speld <hi rend='italic'>plesure</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>mesure</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>fether</hi>. Tyndale
rote <hi rend='italic'>frute</hi>; the <hi rend='italic'>i</hi> in
<hi rend='italic'>fruit</hi> iz a mere restorashon
ov the French speli[n]. For <hi rend='italic'>debt</hi>, on the kontrari,
we feind, b[u]t [t]ree or four h[u]ndred yearz ago,
<hi rend='italic'>dett</hi>. This iz more historikal therefor than
<hi rend='italic'>debt</hi>, bekauz
in French, from hwich the w[u]rd woz borowd,
the <hi rend='italic'>b</hi> had disapeard, and it woz a piurli etimolojikal
fansi tu restore it. The <hi rend='italic'>b</hi> woz leikweiz re-introdiúst
in <hi rend='italic'>doubt</hi>, b[u]t the <hi rend='italic'>p</hi> woz not
restored in <hi rend='italic'>tu kount</hi>
(French <hi rend='italic'>compter</hi>, Latin <hi rend='italic'>computare</hi>),
hwere <hi rend='italic'>p</hi> had
at least the same reit az <hi rend='italic'>b</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>doute</hi>.
Th[u]s <hi rend='italic'>receipt</hi>
reziúmz the Latin <hi rend='italic'>p</hi>, b[u]t <hi rend='italic'>deceit</hi>
d[u]z without it. Tu <hi rend='italic'>deign</hi> keeps the <hi rend='italic'>g</hi>,
tu <hi rend='italic'>disdain</hi> d[u]z without it. Ther
iz an[u]ther <hi rend='italic'>b</hi> hwich haz a serten historikal air in
s[u]m I[n]glish w[u]rdz, b[u]t hwich woz orijinali piurli
fonetik, and iz nou simpli siupérflu[u]s. The old w[u]rd
<pb n='163'/><anchor id='Pg163'/>
for <hi rend='italic'>member</hi> woz <hi rend='italic'>lim</hi>. In s[u]ch kompoundz
az <hi rend='italic'>lim-lama</hi>,
lim(b)-lame; <hi rend='italic'>lim-leas</hi>, lim(b)-less; it woz
imposibel tu avoid the interkalashon ov a <hi rend='italic'>b</hi> in pron[u]nsiashon.
In this maner the <hi rend='italic'>b</hi> krept in, and we
hav nou tu teach that in <hi rend='italic'>limb</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>crumb</hi>
(crume), <hi rend='italic'>thumb</hi>
(thuma), the <hi rend='italic'>b</hi> m[u]st be riten, b[u]t not pronoúnst.
Agen, <hi rend='italic'>tung</hi> (Jerman <hi rend='italic'>zunge</hi>),
<hi rend='italic'>yung</hi> (Jerman <hi rend='italic'>jung</hi>),
az speld bei Spenser, hav a far more historikal aspekt
than <hi rend='italic'>tongue</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>young</hi>.
</p>

<p>
If we wisht tu reit historikali, we ought tu reit
<hi rend='italic'>salm</hi> insted ov <hi rend='italic'>psalm</hi>, for the inishal
<hi rend='italic'>p</hi>, beï[n] lost
in pron[u]nsiashon, woz dropt in reiti[n] at a veri erli
teim (A[n]glo-Sakson <hi rend='italic'>sealm</hi>), and woz re-introdiúst
simpli tu pleaz s[u]m ekleziastikal etimolojists; also
<hi rend='italic'>nevew</hi> (French <hi rend='italic'>neveu</hi>) insted ov
<hi rend='italic'>nephew</hi>, hwich iz
both [u]netimolojikal and [u]nfonetik.
</p>

<p>
In hwot sens kan it be kalld historikal speli[n] if the
old pluralz ov <hi rend='italic'>mouse</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>louse</hi>, hwich wer
<hi rend='italic'>mys</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>lys</hi>, ar nou speld <hi rend='italic'>mice</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>lice</hi>? The plural ov <hi rend='italic'>goose</hi>
iz not speld <hi rend='italic'>geece</hi> b[u]t <hi rend='italic'>geese</hi>,
yet everibodi nóz hou tu
pronoúns it. The same mistaken atempt at an okazhonal
fonetik speli[n] haz separated <hi rend='italic'>dice</hi>
from <hi rend='italic'>die</hi>,
and <hi rend='italic'>pence</hi> from <hi rend='italic'>pens</hi>,
thát iz, <hi rend='italic'>penyes</hi>; hweil in <hi rend='italic'>nurse</hi>,
hwere the speli[n] <hi rend='italic'>nurce</hi> wud hav been useful az remeindi[n]
[u]s ov its true etimon <hi rend='italic'>nourrice</hi>, the <hi rend='italic'>c</hi> haz
been replast bei <hi rend='italic'>s</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Ther ar, in fakt, meni speli[n]z hwich wud be at
the same teim more historikal and more fonetik.
Hwei reit <hi rend='italic'>little</hi>, hwen now[u]n
pronoúnsez <hi rend='italic'>little</hi>, and
<pb n='164'/><anchor id='Pg164'/>
hwen the old speli[n] woz <hi rend='italic'>lytel</hi>?
Hwei <hi rend='italic'>girdle</hi>, hwen
the old speli[n] woz <hi rend='italic'>girdel</hi>? The same rule apleiz tu
nearli all w[u]rdz endi[n] in <hi rend='italic'>le</hi>,
s[u]ch az <hi rend='italic'>sickle</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>ladle</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>apple</hi>, ets., hwere the etimoloji iz kompleteli obskiúrd
bei the prezent or[t]ografi. Hwei <hi rend='italic'>scent</hi>,
b[u]t <hi rend='italic'>dissent</hi>,
hwen even Milton stil rote <hi rend='italic'>sent</hi>?
Hwei <hi rend='italic'>ache</hi>, insted
ov the Shaksperian <hi rend='italic'>ake</hi>? Hwei
<hi rend='italic'>cat</hi>, b[u]t <hi rend='italic'>kitten</hi>;
hwei cow, b[u]t <hi rend='italic'>kine</hi>? Hwei
<hi rend='italic'>accede</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>precede</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>secede</hi>, b[u]t <hi rend='italic'>exceed</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>proceed</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>succeed</hi>? Hwei, indeed, eksept
tu waste the presh[u]s teim ov children?
</p>

<p>
And if it iz difik[u]lt tu say hwot konstitiuts historikal
speli[n], it iz ekwali perpleksi[n] tu defein the
real meani[n] ov etimolojikal speli[n]. For hwere ar we
tu stop? It wud be konsiderd veri [u]netimolojikal
wer we tu reit <hi rend='italic'>nee</hi> insted ov
<hi rend='italic'>knee</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>now</hi> insted ov
<hi rend='italic'>know</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>night</hi>
insted ov <hi rend='italic'>knight</hi>; yet now[u]n komplainz
about the los ov the inishal <hi rend='italic'>h</hi>, the reprezentativ
ov an orijinal <hi rend='italic'>k</hi>, in
<hi rend='italic'>loaf</hi>, A. S. hlâf (cf. κλίβανος),
in <hi rend='italic'>ring</hi> (A. S. <hi rend='italic'>hring</hi>);
in <hi rend='italic'>lade</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>ladder</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>neck</hi>, ets.
</p>

<p>
If we ar tu reit etimolojikali, then hwei not ret[u]rn
tu <hi rend='italic'>loverd</hi>, or <hi rend='italic'>hlaford</hi>,
insted ov <hi rend='italic'>lord</hi>? tu <hi rend='italic'>nosethrill</hi>,
or <hi rend='italic'>nosethirle</hi> insted ov <hi rend='italic'>nostril</hi>;
tu <hi rend='italic'>swister</hi>
insted ov <hi rend='italic'>sister</hi>; hwich wud not be more tr[u]bels[u]m
than <hi rend='italic'>sword</hi>. <hi rend='italic'>Wifmann</hi>
shureli wud be beter than
<hi rend='italic'>woman</hi>; <hi rend='italic'>meadwife</hi>
beter than <hi rend='italic'>midwife</hi>; <hi rend='italic'>godspel</hi>
beter than <hi rend='italic'>gospel</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>ortyard</hi>
beter than <hi rend='italic'>orchard</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>puisne</hi> beter than <hi rend='italic'>puny</hi>.
Frekwentli the prezent
rekogneizd speli[n] luks etimolojikal, b[u]t iz [u]terli [u]netimolojikal.
<hi rend='italic'>Righteous</hi> luks leik an ajektiv in <hi rend='italic'>-eous</hi>,
<pb n='165'/><anchor id='Pg165'/>
s[u]ch az <hi rend='italic'>plenteous</hi>, b[u]t it iz reali a Sakson w[u]rd,
<hi rend='italic'>rightwis</hi>, thát iz <hi rend='italic'>rightwise</hi>,
formd leik <hi rend='italic'>otherwise</hi>,
ets.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Could</hi> iz riten with an <hi rend='italic'>l</hi>
in analoji tu <hi rend='italic'>would</hi>, b[u]t
hweil the <hi rend='italic'>l</hi> iz j[u]stifeid in
<hi rend='italic'>would</hi> from <hi rend='italic'>will</hi>, and
<hi rend='italic'>should</hi> from <hi rend='italic'>shall</hi>
we feind the Old I[n]glish imperfekt
ov <hi rend='italic'>can</hi> riten <hi rend='italic'>cuthe</hi>,
then <hi rend='italic'>couthe</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>coude</hi>. The
<hi rend='italic'>l</hi>, therefor, iz neither fonetik nor etimolojikal. N[u][t]i[n],
agen, kan be more misleadi[n] tu an etimolojist
than the prezent speli[n] ov <hi rend='italic'>whole</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>hale</hi>. Both
k[u]m from the same sourse, the Go[t]ik <hi rend='italic'>hail-s</hi>, Sanskrit
<hi rend='italic'>kalya-s</hi>, meani[n] orijinali,
<hi rend='italic'>fit</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>redi</hi>; then
<hi rend='italic'>sound</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>complete</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>whole</hi>. In A[n]glo-Sakson we hav <hi rend='italic'>hæl</hi>,
hole; and <hi rend='italic'>hal</hi>, hel[t]i, without eni trase
ov a <hi rend='italic'>w</hi>, either
before or after. The Old I[n]glish <hi rend='italic'>halsum</hi>, holes[u]m,
iz the Jerman <hi rend='italic'>hailsam</hi>.
<hi rend='italic'>Whole</hi>, therefor, iz a mere
mis-speli[n] the <hi rend='italic'>w</hi> havi[n] probabli been aded in analoji
tu <hi rend='italic'>who</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>which</hi>, ets. From a
piurli etimolojikal point
ov viu, the <hi rend='italic'>w</hi> iz ro[n]li left out
before <hi rend='italic'>h</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>hou</hi>; for az
A[n]glo-Sakson <hi rend='italic'>hwy</hi> bekame
<hi rend='italic'>why</hi>, A[n]glo-Sakson <hi rend='italic'>hwa</hi>
shud hav bek[u]m <hi rend='italic'>whow</hi>.
</p>

<p>
If we reali atempted tu reit etimolojikali, we shud
hav tu reit <hi rend='italic'>bridegroom</hi> without
the <hi rend='italic'>r</hi>, bekauz <hi rend='italic'>groom</hi>
iz a mere kor[u]pshon ov <hi rend='italic'>guma</hi>, man, A[n]glo-Sakson
<hi rend='italic'>bryd-guma</hi>. We shud hav tu reit
<hi rend='italic'>burse</hi> insted ov
<hi rend='italic'>purse</hi>, az in <hi rend='italic'>disburse</hi>.
In fakt, it iz difik[u]lt tu say
hwere we shud stop. Hwei do we not reit <hi rend='italic'>metal</hi> insted
ov <hi rend='italic'>mettle</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>worthship</hi>
insted ov <hi rend='italic'>worship</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>chirurgeon</hi>
insted ov <hi rend='italic'>surgeon</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>furhlong</hi>
(thát iz, f[u]row
<pb n='166'/><anchor id='Pg166'/>
lo[n]) insted ov <hi rend='italic'>furlong</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>feordhing</hi> (thát iz four[t]
part) insted of <hi rend='italic'>farthing</hi>?
If we reit piuni <hi rend='italic'>puisne</hi>,
we meit az wel reit <hi rend='italic'>post-natus</hi>. We meit spel koi,
<hi rend='italic'>quietus</hi>; pert, <hi rend='italic'>apertus</hi>;
priest, <hi rend='italic'>presbyter</hi>; master,
<hi rend='italic'>magister</hi>; sekston, <hi rend='italic'>sacristan</hi>;
alms, <hi rend='italic'>eleemosyne</hi>,
ets. If enibodi wil tel me at hwot date etimolojikal
speli[n] iz tu begin, hwether at 1,500 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> or at
1,000 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, or 500
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, ei am wili[n] tu disk[ú]s
the kwestion. Til then, ei beg leav tu say that etimolojikal
speli[n] wud play greater havok in I[n]glish
than fonetik speli[n], even if we wer tu draw a lein not
more than feiv h[u]ndred yearz ago.
</p>

<p>
The two stro[n]gest argiuments, therefor, agenst
fonetik speli[n], nameli, that it wud destroi the historikal
and etimolojikal karakter ov the I[n]glish la[n]gwej,
ar, after all, b[u]t veri parshali true. Here and
there, no dout, the etimoloji and histori ov an I[n]glish
w[u]rd meit be obskiúrd bei fonetik speli[n]; az if, for
instans, we rote <q>Y[ue][o]p</q> insted ov <hi rend='italic'>Europe</hi>. B[u]t
even then analoji wud help [u]s, and teach thoze who
nó Greek, ov whom ther ar not meni, that <q>Y[ue]r</q>
in s[u]ch w[u]rdz az <hi rend='italic'>Europe</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Eurydice</hi>, reprezented the
Greek εὐρύς. The real anser, houever, iz, that now[u]n
kud onestli kall the prezent sistem ov speli[n]
either historikal or etimolojikal; and, ei believ, that,
taken az a hole, the los oka[z]ond bei konsistent fonetik
speli[n] wud not be greater than the gain.
</p>

<p>
An[u]ther objekshon [u]rjd agenst fonetik speli[n],
nameli, that with it it wud be imposibel tu disti[n]gwish
<pb n='167'/><anchor id='Pg167'/>
homonimz, m[u]st be met in the same way. No dout
it iz a serten advantej if in reiti[n] we kan disti[n]gwish
<hi rend='italic'>right</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>rite</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>write</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>wright</hi>. B[u]t if, in the h[u]ri
ov konversashon, ther iz hardli ever a dout hwich
w[u]rd iz ment, shureli ther wud be m[u]ch les danjer
in the slow proses ov readi[n] a kontiniu[u]s sentens.
If vari[u]s speli[n]z ov the same w[u]rd ar nesesari tu
point out diferent meani[n]z, we shud rekweir eight
speli[n]z for <hi rend='italic'>box</hi>, tu signifei a chest, a Kristmas gift,
a h[u]nti[n] seat, a tree, a slap, tu sail round, seats in a
[t]eater, and the fr[u]nt seat on a koach; and this prinsipel
wud hav tu be apleid tu ab[u]v 400 w[u]rdz.
Who wud [u]ndertake tu proveid all theze variashonz
ov the prezent uniform speli[n] ov theze w[u]rdz? And
we m[u]st not forget that, after all, in readi[n] a paje we
ar seldom in dout hwether <hi rend='italic'>sole</hi> meanz a fish, or the
<hi rend='italic'>sole</hi> ov a fut, or iz uzed az an ajektiv. If ther iz
at eni teim eni real difik[u]lti, la[n]gwej proveidz its own
remedi. It either drops s[u]ch w[u]rdz az <hi rend='italic'>rite</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>sole</hi>,
replasi[n] them bei <hi rend='italic'>seremony</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>only</hi>, or it uzez a
perifrastik ekspreshon, s[u]ch az the sole ov the fut,
or the sole and onli ground, ets.
</p>

<p>
[Five other new letters, representing the long vowels,
will now be introduced, namely
</p>

<p>
[e], [i], [w], [o], [ue],
</p>

<p>
for the sounds heard in
</p>

<p>
th<hi rend='italic'>ey</hi>, f<hi rend='italic'>ie</hi>ld,
s<hi rend='italic'>aw</hi>, n<hi rend='italic'>o</hi>, d<hi rend='italic'>o</hi>,
m<hi rend='italic'>a</hi>te, s<hi rend='italic'>ee</hi>, c<hi rend='italic'>a</hi>ll,
c<hi rend='italic'>o</hi>re, tr<hi rend='italic'>ue</hi>,
m<hi rend='italic'>a</hi>re, pol<hi rend='italic'>i</hi>ce,
<hi rend='italic'>ou</hi>ght, c<hi rend='italic'>oa</hi>l,
p<hi rend='italic'>oo</hi>r.]
</p>

<p>
Th[u]s far ei hav treid tu anser the r[i]ali important
<pb n='168'/><anchor id='Pg168'/>
argiuments hwich hav b[i]n br[w]t forward agenst f[o]netik
speli[n]. Ei hav d[u]n s[o] with speshal referens
tu the pouerful remonstransez ov Archbishop Trench,
and hiz m[o]st [e]bel pl[i]di[n] in f[e]vor ov the establisht
sistem ov or[t]ografi. Az a m[i]r skolar, ei fuli sh[e]r
hiz f[i]li[n]z, and ei sins[i]rli admeir hiz elokwent advokasi.
Ei difer from him bek[w]z ei d[ue] not tink, az
h[i] d[u]z, that the los ent[e]ld bei fonetik speli[n] wud b[i]
s[o] gr[e]t az w[i] imajin; or that it wud b[i] [w]l on w[u]n
seid. Beseidz, [u]nles h[i] kan sh[o] hou a reform ov speli[n]
iz not [o]nli for the prezent tu b[i] avoided, b[u]t [w]ltugether
tu b[i] renderd [u]nnesesari, ei konsider that the
s[ue]ner it iz t[e]ken in hand the beter. It s[i]mz tu m[i]
that the Archbishop luks on the introd[u]kshon ov
f[o]netik speli[n] az a m[i]r krochet ov a fiu skolarz, or
az an atempt on the part ov s[u]m haf-ediuk[e]ted personz,
wishi[n] tu avoid the tr[u]bel ov lerni[n] hou tu spel
korektli. If that wer s[o], ei kweit agr[i] with him that
p[u]blik opinion wud never asiúm s[u]fishent fors for
karii[n] th[e]r sk[i]m. B[u]t ther iz a m[o]tiv pouer beheind
th[i]z fenetik reformerz hwich the Archbishop haz
hardli t[e]ken intu akount. Ei m[i]n the mizeri endiúrd
bei milionz ov children at ski[ue]l, h[ue] meit lern
in w[u]n y[i]r, and with r[i]al advantej tu themselvz, hwot
th[e] nou rekweir f[o]r or feiv y[i]rz tu lern, and seldom
s[u]ks[i]d in lerni[n] after [w]l. If the evidens ov s[u]ch
men az Mr. Ellis iz tu b[i] depended on, and ei bel[i]v
h[i] iz wili[n] tu s[u]bmit tu eni test, then sh[ue]rli the los
ov s[u]n historikal and etimolojikal <hi rend='italic'>souvenirs</hi> wud be
<pb n='169'/><anchor id='Pg169'/>
litel agenst the hapines ov milionz ov children, and
the stil heier hapines ov milionz ov I[n]glishmen and
I[n]glisewimen, gr[o]i[n] [u]p az the [e]rz tu [w]l the wel[t]
and stre[n][t] ov I[n]glish literatiur, or [u]n[e]bel tu r[i]d
[i]ven th[e]r Beibel. H[i]r it iz hwer ei ventiur tu difer
from the Archbishop, not az b[i]i[n] sa[n]gwin az tu eni
imm[i]diet s[u]kses, b[u]t simpli az f[i]li[n] it a diuti tu help
in a k[w]z hwich at prezent iz m[o]st [u]npopiular. The
[i]vil d[e] m[e] b[i] put of for a lo[n] teim, partikiularli if
the w[e]t ov s[u]ch men az Archbishop Trench iz [t]ren
intu the [u]ther sk[e]l. B[u]t [u]nles la[n]gwe[i] s[i]sez tu b[i]
la[n]gwe[i], and reiti[n] s[i]sez tu b[i] reiti[n], the d[e] wil
sh[ue]rli k[u]m hwen p[i]s wil hav tu b[i] m[e]d betw[i]n the
t[úe]. Jermani haz apointed a G[u]vernment Komishon
tu konsider hwot iz tu b[i] d[u]n with Jerman speli[n]
In Amerika, t[ue], s[u]m l[i]di[n] st[e]tsmen s[i]m inkleind tu
t[e]k [u]p the reform ov speli[n] on nashonal groundz.
Iz ther n[o] st[e]tsman in I[n]gland s[u]fishentli pr[ue]f agenst
ridikiul tu k[w]l the atenshon ov Parliment tu hwot iz
a gr[o]i[n] misfortiun?
</p>

<p>
M[u]ch, houever, az ei difer from the Archbishop
on th[i]z groundz, ei kanot b[u]t deprek[e]t the t[o]n in
hwich hiz pouerful opozishon ház b[i]n met bei meni
ov the [u]ph[o]lderz ov f[o]netik speli[n]. N[e], ei m[u]st g[o]
stil f[u]rther, and fra[n]kli konfés that tu w[u]n ov hiz
argiuments ei feind it difik[u]lt, at prezent, tu giv a
satisfaktori anser.
</p>

<p>
<q>It iz a m[i]r as[u]mpshon,</q> the Archbishop remarks,
<q>that [w]l men pronoúns [w]l w[u]rdz aleik; or
<pb n='170'/><anchor id='Pg170'/>
that hwenever th[e] k[u]m tu spel a w[u]rd th[e] wil ekzaktli
agr[i] az tu hwot the outlein ov its sound iz. Nou w[i]
ar sh[ue]r men wil not d[ue] this, from the fakt that, bef[o]r
ther woz eni fikst and seteld or[t]ografi in our
la[n]gwej, hwen, th[e]rfor, everibodi woz m[o]r or les a
a f[o]nografer, s[i]ki[n] tu reit doun the w[u]rd az it sounded
tu <hi rend='italic'>him</hi>,&mdash;for h[i] had n[o] [u]ther l[w] tu geid him,&mdash;the
v[e]ri[e]shonz ov speli[n] ar infinit. T[e]k, for instans, the
w[u]rd <hi rend='italic'>sudden</hi>, hwich d[u]z not s[i]m tu promis eni gr[e]t
sk[o]p for vareieti. Ei hav meiself met with this w[u]rd
speld in n[o] les than f[ó]rt[i]n w[e]z am[u][n] our erli reiterz.
Agen, in hou meni w[e]z woz Raleigh'z n[e]m speld, or
Shakspere'z? The s[e]m iz evident from the speli[n]
ov [u]nediukated personz in our [o]n d[.[e]]. Th[E] hav n[o]
[u]ther r[ue]l b[u]t the sound tu geid them. Hou iz it
that th[e] d[ue] not [w]l spel aleik?</q> <hi rend='italic'>I[n]glish, Past and
Prezent</hi>, p. 203.
</p>

<p>
Leik m[o]st men h[ue] pl[i]d with th[e]r hart az wel az
with th[e]r hed, the Archbishop haz h[i]r [o]verlukt w[u]n
obvi[u]s anser tu hiz kwestion. Th[e] d[ue] not spel aleik
bek[w]z th[e] hav b[i]n br[w]t [u]p with a sistem ov speli[n]
in hwich the s[e]m sound kan b[i] reprezented in ten
diferent w[e]z, and in hwich hardli eni w[u]n leter iz
restrikted tu w[u]n fonetik pouer onli. If children
wer br[w]t [u]p with an alfabet in hwich [i]ch leter had
b[u]t w[u]n sound, and in hwich the s[e]m sound woz
[w]lw[e]z reprezented bei the s[e]m sein&mdash;and this iz the
veri esens ov f[o]netik reiti[n]&mdash;then it wud b[i] simpli
<pb n='171'/><anchor id='Pg171'/>
imposibel that th[e] shud dr[i]m ov reiti[n] <hi rend='italic'>sudden</hi> in f[o]rt[i]n,
or <hi rend='italic'>Woburn</hi> in 140, diferent w[e]z.
</p>

<p>
B[u]t for [w]l thát ther iz s[u]m tr[ue][t] in the Archbishop's
remark; and if w[i] komp[e]r the diferent w[e]z
in hwich the advokets ov f[o]netik speli[n]&mdash;men leik
Pitman, Bell, Ellis, Withers, Jones&mdash;reit the s[e]m
w[u]rdz, [i]ven hwen y[ue]zi[n] the s[e]m fonetik alfabet, w[i]
shal s[i] that the difik[u]lti pointed out bei the Archbishop
iz a r[i]al w[u]n. Everiw[u]n n[o]z hou diferentli
the s[e]m w[u]rdz [w]lwez hav b[i]n and stil ar pronoúnst
in diferent parts ov I[n]gland. And it iz not onli in
tounz and kountiz that th[i]z pekiuliaritiz prev[e]l; ther
ar serten w[u]rdz hwich w[u]n famili pronoúnsez diferentli
from an[u]ther; and ther ar beseidz the st[u]did
and [u]nst[u]did pekiuliaritiz ov individiual sp[i]kerz. Tu
konvíns p[i]pel that w[u]n pron[u]nsi[e]shon iz reit and the
[u]ther ro[n], s[i]mz [u]terli hoples. Ei hav herd a heili
k[u]ltiveted man defendi[n] hiz dropi[n] the <hi rend='italic'>h</hi> at the begini[n]
ov serten w[u]rdz, bei the [u]nanserabel argiument
that in the pl[e]s hwer h[i] woz br[w]t [u]p, n[o]w[u]n
pronoúnst th[i]z inishal <hi rend='italic'>hz</hi>. Hwot Skochman wud
admit that hiz pron[u]nsi[e]shon woz f[w]lti? Hwot
Eirishman wud s[u]bmit tu l[w]z ov speli[n] past in L[u]ndon?
And hwot renderz argiument on eni neisetiz
ov pron[u]nsieshon stil m[o]r difik[u]lt iz, that b[o][t] the [i]r
and the t[u][n] ar m[o]st trecher[u]s witnesez. Ei hav herd
Amerikanz m[e]nt[e]n in gud ernest that ther woz m[u]ch
les of n[e]zal twa[n] in Amerika than in I[n]gland. P[i]pel
ar not awer hou th[e] pronoúns, and hou diferentli th[e]
<pb n='172'/><anchor id='Pg172'/>
pronoúns w[u]n and the s[e]m w[u]rd. Az a forener ei
hav had ampel oportiunitiz for obzerv[e]shon on this
point. S[u]m frendz wud tel m[i], for instans, that
<hi rend='italic'>world</hi> woz pronoúnst leik <hi rend='italic'>whirl'd</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>father</hi> leik <hi rend='italic'>farther</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>nor</hi> (bef[o]r konsonants) leik <hi rend='italic'>gnaw</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>bud</hi> leik
<hi rend='italic'>bird</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>burst</hi> leik
<hi rend='italic'>bust</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>for</hi> leik
<hi rend='italic'>fur</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>birth</hi> leik
<hi rend='italic'>berth</hi>;
that the vouelz had the s[e]m sound in <hi rend='italic'>where</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>were</hi>, in <hi rend='italic'>not</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>war</hi>, in <hi rend='italic'>God</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>gaudy</hi>; hweil
[u]therz ash[ue]rd m[i] that n[o]w[u]n b[u]t a forener kud [t]i[n]k
s[o]. And the w[u]rst iz that [i]ven the s[e]m person d[u]z
not [w]lwez pronoúns the s[e]m w[u]rd in ekzaktli the
s[e]m maner. Konstantli, hwen ei askt a frend tu
rep[i]t a w[u]rd hwich h[i] had j[u]st pronoúnst, h[i] wud
pronoúns it agen, b[u]t with a sleit diferens. The m[i]r
fakt ov hiz treii[n] tu pronoúns wel wud give tu hiz
pron[u]nsi[e]shon a konsh[u]s and emfatik karakter. The
prepozishon <hi rend='italic'>of</hi> iz pronoúnst bei m[o]st
p[i]pel <hi rend='italic'>or</hi>, b[u]t
if kros-ekzamind, meni wil s[e] that th[e] pronoúns <hi rend='italic'>ov</hi>,
b[u]t the <hi rend='italic'>o</hi> not ekzaktli leik <hi rend='italic'>off</hi>.
</p>

<p>
The konfiu[z]on bek[u]mz gr[e]test hwen it iz atempted
tu eidentifei the pron[u]nsi[e]shon, s[e] ov a vouel in Jerman
with a vouel in I[n]glish. N[o] t[úe] I[n]glishmen and
n[o] t[úe] Jermanz s[i]md tu b[i] [e]bel tu agr[i] on hwot th[e]
herd with th[e]r [i]rz, or hwot th[e] sed with th[e]r t[u][n]z;
and the rez[u]lt in the end iz that n[o] vouel in Jernran
woz r[i]ali the s[e]m az eni [u]ther vouel in I[n]glish. Tu
t[e]k w[u]n or t[ú] instansez, from Mr. Ellis'z k[i] tu Palioteip
(Palœtype), ei kan h[i]r n[o] diferens betw[i]n the <hi rend='italic'>a</hi>
in Italian <hi rend='italic'>mano</hi>, I[n]glish <hi rend='italic'>father</hi>,
and Jerman <hi rend='italic'>mahnen</hi>,
<pb n='173'/><anchor id='Pg173'/>
[u]nles ei restrikt mei obzerv[e]shonz tu the [u]terans ov
serten individiualz; hw[e]raz ei d[ue] h[i]r a veri deseided,
and jenerali adopted, diferens betw[i]n the vouelz in
Jerman <hi rend='italic'>böcke</hi> and French <hi rend='italic'>jeune</hi>.
Mr. Ellis, t[u]chi[n]
on the s[e]m difik[u]lti, remarks, <q>Mr. Bell's pron[u]nsi[e]shon,
in meni instansez, diferz from thát hwich ei
am ak[u]stomd tu giv, espeshali in foren w[u]rdz. B[o][t]
ov [u]s m[e] b[i] ro[n].</q> Mr. Sweet remarks, p. 10, <q>Mr.
Ellis insists stro[n]li on the monof[t]o[n]gal karakter ov
hiz [o]n <hi rend='italic'>eez</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>ooz</hi>. Ei h[i]r hiz <hi rend='italic'>ee</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>oo</hi> az disti[n]kt
dif[t]o[n]z, not [o]nli in hiz I[n]glish pron[u]nsi[e]shon, b[u]t
[w]ls[o] in hiz pron[u]nsi[e]shon ov French, Jerman, and
Latin.</q> If f[o]netik reiti[n] ment this miniút f[o]tografi
ov sp[o]ken soundz, in hwich Mes. Bell and Ellis eksél;
if eni atempt had ever b[i]n m[e]d tu emploi this h[e]r-spliti[n]
mash[i]neri for a praktikal reform ov I[n]glish
speli[n], the objekshonz r[e]zd bei Archbishop Trench
wud b[i] kweit [u]nanserabel. Ther wud b[i] fifti diferent
w[e]z ov speli[n] I[n]glish, and the konfiu[z]on wud b[i]
gr[e]ter than it iz nou. Not [i]ven Mr. Bell'z [t]erti-siks
kategoriz ov vouel sound wud b[i] s[u]fishent tu render
everi pekiuliariti ov vouel kwoliti, pich and kwontiti,
with perfekt akiurasi. (S[i] H. Sweet, <q>Histori
ov I[n]glish Soundz,</q> pp. 58, 68.) B[u]t this woz
never intended, and hweil kons[i]di[n] m[u]ch tu the
Archbishop's argiuments, ei m[u]st not kons[i]d t[ue]
m[u]ch.
</p>

<p>
Hwot ei leik in Mr. Pitman'z sistem ov speli[n] iz
ekzaktli hwot ei nó haz b[i]n found f[w]lt with bei
<pb n='174'/><anchor id='Pg174'/>
[u]therz n[e]mli that h[i] d[u]z not atempt tu refein t[ue] m[u]ch,
and tu ekspres in reiti[n] th[o]z endles sh[e]dz ov pron[u]nsi[e]shon,
hwich m[e] b[i] ov the gr[e]test interest tu the stiudent
ov akoustiks, or ov f[o]netiks, az apleid tu the st[u]di
ov livi[n] deialekts, b[u]t hwich, for praktikal az well az
for seientifik filolojikal p[u]rposez, m[u]st b[i] enteirli ign[o]rd.
Reiti[n] woz never intended tu f[o]tograf sp[o]ken
la[n]gwejez: it woz ment tu indik[e]t, not tu p[e]nt
soundz. If Voltaire sez, <q>L'écriture c'est la peinture
de la voix,</q> h[i] iz reit; b[u]t hwen h[i] g[o]z on tu
s[e], <q>plus elle est ressemblante, meilleur elle est,</q> ei
am not serten that, az in a piktiur ov a landsk[e]p, s[o]
in a piktiur ov the vois, pr[i]-R[e]if[e]leit miniútnes m[e]
not destroi the veri objekt ov the piktiur. La[n]gwej
d[i]lz in br[w]d k[u]lorz, and reiti[n] [w]t tu fol[o] the ekzampel
ov la[n]gwej, hwich th[o] it alouz an endles vareiti
ov pron[u]nsi[e]shon, restrikts itself for its [o]n p[u]rpos,
for the p[u]rpos ov ekspresi[n] [t][w]t in [w]l its modifik[e]shonz,
tu a veri limited n[u]mber ov tipikal vouelz and
konsonants. Out ov the larj n[u]mber ov soundz, for
instans, hwich hav b[i]n katalogd from the v[e]ri[u]s
I[n]glish deialekts, thoz onli kan b[i] rekogneizd az
konstitiuent elements ov the la[n]gwej hwich in, and
bei, th[e]r diferens from [i]ch [u]ther, konv[e] a diferens ov
m[i]ni[n]. Ov s[u]ch pregnant and [t][w]t-konv[e]i[n] vouelz,
I[n]glish pozésez n[o] m[o]r than twelv. Hwotever the
meinor sh[e]dz ov vouel soundz in I[n]glish deialekts m[e]
b[i], th[e] d[ue] not enrich the la[n]gwej, az s[u]ch, thát iz,
th[e] d[ue] not en[e]bel the sp[i]ker tu konv[e] m[o]r miniút
<pb n='175'/><anchor id='Pg175'/>
sh[e]dz ov [t][w]t than the twelv tipikal si[n]gel vouelz.
Beseidz, ther jenerali iz hwot the French meit k[w]l
a f[o]netik solidariti in [i]ch deialekt. If w[u]n vouel
ch[e]njez, the [u]therz ar apt tu fol[o], and the m[e]n objekt
ov la[n]gwej rem[e]nz the s[e]m [t]r[ue]out, n[e]mli, tu
prevent w[u]n w[u]rd from r[u]ni[n] intu an[u]ther, and yet
tu abst[e]n from t[ue], miniút fonetik disti[n]kshonz, hwich
an ordinari [i]r meit feind it difik[u]lt tu grasp. This
prinsipel ov f[o]netik solidariti iz ov gr[e]t importans,
not onli in ekspl[e]ni[n] the gradiual ch[e]njez ov vouelz,
b[u]t [w]ls[o] s[u]ch jeneral ch[e]njez ov konsonants az w[i]
s[i], for instans, in the Jerman <hi rend='italic'>Lautverschiebung</hi>.
Az s[ue]m az w[u]n pl[e]s iz left v[e]kant, ther iz preshur
tu fil it, or s[o] m[u]ch ov it az iz left v[e]kant, b[u]t n[o]
m[o]r.
</p>

<p>
Ther ar, in fakt, t[úe] branchez, or at [w]l events, t[úe]
kweit disti[n]kt praktikal aplik[e]shonz ov the seiens ov
F[o]netiks, hwich for wont ov beter n[e]mz, ei design[e]t
az <hi rend='italic'>filolojikal</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>deialektikal</hi>. Ther iz hwot m[e]
b[i] k[w]ld a filolojikal st[u]di ov F[o]netiks, hwich iz an
esenshal part ov the Seiens ov La[n]gwej, and haz for
its objekt tu giv a kl[i]r eid[i]a ov the alfabet, not az
riten, b[u]t az sp[o]ken. It tr[i]ts ov the mat[i]rialz out
ov hwich, the instruments with hwich, and the proses
bei hwich, vouelz and konsonants ar formd; and
after ekspl[e]ni[n] hou serten leterz agr[i], and difer, in
th[e]r mat[i]rial, in the instruments with hwich, and the
proses bei hwich th[e] ar prodiúst, it en[e]belz [u]s tu
[u]nderstand the k[w]zez and rez[u]lts ov hwot iz k[w]ld
<pb n='176'/><anchor id='Pg176'/>
F[o]netik Ch[e]nj. In meni respekts the most instr[u]ktiv
tr[i]tment ov the jeneral [t][i]ori ov F[o]netiks iz tu b[i]
found in the Prâti<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âkhyas; partikiularli in the [o]ldest
(400 B.K.), thát atacht tu the Rig
V[e]da.<note place='foot'><q>Rig-Veda-Prâti<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âkhya,
Das älteste Lehrbuch der Vedischen
Phonetik, Sanskrit Text, mit Übersetzung und Anmerkungen,
herausgegeben,</q> von F. Max Müller, Leipzig, 1869.</note> Th[o]
the n[u]mber ov posibel soundz m[e] s[i]m infinit the
n[u]mber ov r[i]al soundz y[ue]zd in Sanskrit or eni [u]ther
given la[n]gwej for the p[u]rpos ov ekspresi[n] diferent
sh[e]dz ov m[i]ni[n], iz veri limited. It iz with th[i]z
br[w]d kategoriz ov sound al[o]n that the Prâti<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âkhyas
d[i]l; and it iz for a proper [u]nderstandi[n] ov th[i]z the
Seiens ov La[n]jgwej haz tu inkl[ue]d within its sf[i]r a
k[e]rful st[u]di ov F[o]netiks.
</p>

<p>
The deialektikal st[u]di ov F[o]netiks haz larjer objekts.
It wishez tu ekz[w]st [w]l posibel soundz hwich
kan b[i] prodiúst bei the v[o]kal organz, litel konsernd
az tu hwether th[i]z soundz ok[u]r in eni r[i]al la[n]gwej or
not. It iz partikiularli y[ue]sful for the p[u]rpos ov
p[e]nti[n], with the [u]tm[o]st akiurasi, the aktiual pron[u]nsi[e]shon
ov individiualz, and ov fiksi[n] the f[e]ntest
sh[e]dz ov deialektik vareieti. The m[o]st marvel[u]s
ach[i]vment in this branch ov apleid f[o]netiks m[e] b[i]
s[i]n in Mr. Bell'z <q>Vizibel Sp[i]ch.</q>
</p>

<p>
Th[i]z t[úe] branchez ov f[o]netik seiens, houever, shud
b[i] kept k[e]rfuli disti[n]kt. Az the found[e]shon ov a
praktikal alfabet, leikweiz az the onli s[e]f found[e]shon
for the Seiens ov La[n]gwej, w[i] wont filolojikal or
[t][i][o]retik F[o]netiks. W[i] wont an [u]nderstandi[n] ov
<pb n='177'/><anchor id='Pg177'/>
thez jeneral prinsipelz and thez br[w]d kategoriz ov
sound hwich ar tr[i]ted in the Prâtisâkhyas; w[i] d[ue]
not wont eni ov the miniút deialektikal disti[n]kshonz
hwich hav no gramatikal p[u]rpos and ar th[e]rfor outseid
the p[e]l ov gramatikal seiens. T[ue], miniút disti[n]kshon
prodi[ue]sez konfiu[z]on, and hw[e]r it kan b[i]
avoided, without a sakrifeiz ov akiurasi, it [w]t tu b[i]
avoided. Hw[e]r v[e]gnes ekzists in r[i]aliti, and hwer
n[e]tiur alouz a br[w]d marjin on either seid, it wud b[i]
ro[n] tu ignor thát latitiud. Akiurasi itself wud h[i]r
bek[u]m inakiurasi.
</p>

<p>
B[u]t hwen w[i] wont tu ekz[w]st [w]l posibel sh[e]dz ov
sound, hwen w[i] wont tu fotograf the pekiuliaritiz ov
serten deialekts, or me[z]ur the d[i]vi[e]shonz in the pron[u]nsi[e]shon
ov individiualz bei the m[o]st miniút degr[i]z,
w[i] then m[u]st av[e]l ourselvz ov thát ekskwizit
artistik mash[i]neri konstr[u]kted bei Mr. Bell, and
handeld with s[o] m[u]ch skil bei Mr. A. J. Ellis, the
fiu onli wil b[i] [e]bel tu y[ue]z it with r[i]al s[u]kses.
</p>

<p>
S[u]m p[i]pel s[i]m tu imajin that the pouer ov disti[n]gwishi[n]
miniút diferensez ov soundz iz a natiural
gift, and kanot b[i] akweird. It m[e] b[i] so in kweit
eksepshonal k[e]sez, b[u]t ei no az a fakt that a cheild
that had, az p[i]pel s[e], no [i]r for miuzik, and kud not
si[n] <q>God s[e]v the Kw[i]n,</q> gradiuali akweird the
pouer ov disti[n]gwishi[n] the ordinari nots, and ov
si[n]i[n] a tiun. Sp[i]ki[n] from mei on eksp[i]riens ei
shud s[e] that a gud [i]r k[u]mz bei inheritans, for,
az lo[n] az ei kan remember, a fols not, or, az w[i] y[ue]st
<pb n='178'/><anchor id='Pg178'/>
tu k[w]l it, an impiur (<hi rend='italic'>unrein</hi>) n[o]t, woz tu m[i] fizikali
p[e]nful.
</p>

<p>
B[u]t this apleiz tu miuzik [o]nli, and it iz bei n[o]
m[i]nz jenerali tr[ue], that p[i]pel h[ue] hav a gud miuzikal
[i]r, hav [w]ls[o] a gud [i]r for la[n]gwej. Ei hav non
p[i]pel kweit [u]nmiuzikal, pozést ov a veri gud [i]r for
la[n]gwej, and <hi rend='italic'>vice versâ</hi>. The t[´[ue]] natiural gifts, th[e]rfor,
if natiural gifts th[e] ar, ov disti[n]gwishi[n] miniút
degr[i]z ov pich and kwoliti ov sound d[u] not s[i]m tu
b[i] the s[e]m. The r[i]al difik[u]lti, houever, hwich m[e]ks
itself felt in disk[ú]si[n] miniút sh[e]dz ov sound, areizez
from the ins[u]fishensi ov our nomenklatiur, from the
[w]lm[o]st irrezistibel influens ov imajin[e]shon, and in
the end, from the wont ov a f[o]nometer. A gud
miuzishan kan disti[n]gwish betw[i]n
<hi rend='italic'>C sharp</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>D
flat</hi>, a gud f[o]netishan betw[i]n a <q>l[o]-bak-nar[o]</q> and a
<q>l[o]-mikst-nar[o]</q> vouel. B[u]t th[e] kanot [w]lw[e]z transl[e]t
th[e]r sentiments intu definit la[n]gwej, and if th[e] trei
bei aktiual eksperiment tu imit[e]t th[i]z t[ú] soundz or
vouelz, the imperfekshonz ov the [i]r and t[u][n], b[o][t] in
the sp[i]ker and the lisener, fr[i]kwentli render [w]l
atempts at a miutiual [u]nderstandi[n] imposibel. W[i]
shal never areiv at seientifik presi[z]on til w[i] hav a
f[o]nometer for kwoliti ov sound, nor d[ue] ei s[i] hwei
s[u]ch an instrument shud b[i] imposibel. Ei wel remember
Wheatstone teli[n] m[i], that h[i] wud [u]ndert[e]k
tu r[i]prodiús bei m[i]nz ov an instrument everi sh[e]d
ov vouel in eni la[n]gw[e]j ov the w[u]rld, and ei shud
[t]i[n]k that Willis'z and Helmholtz'z eksperiments wud
<pb n='179'/><anchor id='Pg179'/>
s[u]plei the elements from hwich s[u]ch a f[o]nometer
meit b[i] konstitiuted. Az s[ur]n az w[i] kan me[z]ur,
defein, and r[i]prodiús, at ple[z]ur, hwot at prezent w[i]
kan [o]nli deskreib in aproksim[r]t termz, the seiens
ov f[o]netiks wil bek[u]m m[o]st fr[ue]tful, and asiúm its
lejitimet pl[e]s az a <hi rend='italic'>sine quâ non</hi> tu the stiudent ov
la[n]gwej.
</p>

<p>
Ei hav s[u]mteimz b[i]n bl[e]md for havi[n] insisted on
F[o]netiks b[i]i[n] rekogneizd az the found[e]shon ov the
Seiens ov La[n]gwej. Prof. Benfey and [u]ther skolarz
protested agenst the chapter ei hav dev[o]ted tu F[o]netiks
in the Sekond S[i]r[i]z ov mei <q>Lektiurz,</q> az
an [u]nnesesari inov[e]shon, and thoz protests hav bek[u]m
stil stro[n]ger ov l[e]t. B[u]t h[i]r, t[ue], w[i] m[u]st disti[n]gwish
betw[i]n t[´[ue]] [t]i[n]z. Filolojikal or jeneral F[o]netiks,
ar, ei h[o]ld, az stro[n]li az ever, an integral
part ov the Seiens ov La[n]gwej; deialektik F[o]netiks
m[e] b[i] y[ue]sful h[i]r and th[e]r, b[u]t th[e] shud b[i] kept
within th[e]r proper sf[i]r; [u]therweiz, ei admit az redili
az eniw[u]n els, th[e] obskiúr rather than rev[i]l the br[w]d
and masiv k[u]lorz ov sound hwich la[n]gwej y[ue]zez for
its ordinari w[u]rk.
</p>

<p>
If w[i] reflekt a litel, w[i] shal s[i] that the filolojikal
konsepshon ov a vouel iz s[u]m[t]i[n] t[o]tali diferent from
its piurli akoustik or deialektik konsepshon. The
former iz ch[i]fli konsernd with the sf[i]r ov posibel
v[e]ri[e]shon, and the later with the piurli fenomenal individiualiti
ov [i]ch vouel. Tu the filolojist, the [t]rj[i]
vouelz in <hi rend='italic'>septimus</hi>, for instans, hwotever th[e]r ekzakt
<pb n='180'/><anchor id='Pg180'/>
pron[u]nsi[e]shonz m[e] hav b[i]n at diferent teimz, and in
diferent provinsez ov the R[o]man Empeir, ar p[o]tenshali
w[u]n and the s[e]m. W[i] luk on <hi rend='italic'>septimus</hi> and
ἕβύοώος az on Sanskrit <hi rend='italic'>saptamas</hi>, and [o]nli bei n[o]i[n]
that <hi rend='italic'>e</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>i</hi>,
and <hi rend='italic'>u</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>septimus</hi>
ar [w]l reprezentativz ov
a short <hi rend='italic'>a</hi>, or that
<hi rend='italic'>optimus</hi> standz for the m[o]r [e]nshent
<hi rend='italic'>optumus</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>optomos</hi>,
d[ue] w[i] t[e]k in at w[u]n
glans the h[o]l histori and posibel v[e]ri[e]shon ov th[i]z
vouelz in diferent la[n]gwejez and deialekts. [I]ven
hw[e]r a vouel disap[i]rz kompl[i]tli, az in <hi rend='italic'>gigno</hi> for
<hi rend='italic'>gigeno</hi>, in πίπτω for πιπευω the mentl ei ov the
filolojist disérnz and w[e]z hwot n[o] [i]r kan h[i]r. And
hweil in th[i]z k[e]sez the etimolojist, disregardi[n] the
kl[i]rest vareieti ov pron[u]nsi[e]shon, tr[i]ts s[u]ch vouelz
az <hi rend='italic'>a</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>e</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>i</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>o</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>u</hi> az w[u]n and the s[e]m, in [u]therz hw[e]r
t[úe] vouelz s[i]m tu hav ekzaktli the s[e]m sound tu the
deialektishan, the filolojist on hiz part pers[i]vz diferensez
ov the gr[e]test importans. The <hi rend='italic'>i</hi> in
<hi rend='italic'>fides</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>cliens</hi> m[e] hav the s[e]m sound az
the <hi rend='italic'>i</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>gigno</hi> or
<hi rend='italic'>septimus</hi>, the <hi rend='italic'>u</hi>
ov <hi rend='italic'>luo</hi> m[e] not difer from the <hi rend='italic'>u</hi> in
<hi rend='italic'>optumus</hi> or <hi rend='italic'>lubens</hi>,
b[u]t th[e]r intrinsik valiu, th[e]r k[e]pabilitiz
ov gr[o][t] and dek[é], ar to t[o]tali diferent in [i]ch.
W[i] shal never b[i] [e]bel tu sp[i]k with eni[t]i[n] leik r[i]al
seientifik akiurasi ov the pron[u]nsi[e]shon ov [e]nshent
la[n]gwejez, b[u]t [i]ven if w[i] luk tu th[e]r riten ap[i]rans
[o]nli, w[i] s[i] agén and agén hou vouelz, riten aleik, ar
historikali t[o]tali disti[n]kt. Grimm introdiúst the disti[n]kshon
betw[i]n <hi rend='italic'>ái</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>aí</hi>,
betw[i]n <hi rend='italic'>áu</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>aú</hi>, not
bek[w]z it iz bei eni m[i]nz serten that the pron[u]nsi[e]shon
<pb n='181'/><anchor id='Pg181'/>
ov th[i]z dif[t]o[n]z v[e]rid, b[u]t bek[w]z h[i] wisht tu
indik[e]t that the antes[i]dents ov <hi rend='italic'>ái</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>áu</hi> wer diferent
from th[o]z ov <hi rend='italic'>aí</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>aú</hi>. In Go[t]ik <hi rend='italic'>faíhu</hi>,
(Sk. pa<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>u, pecu), <hi rend='italic'>aí</hi>
iz <hi rend='italic'>a</hi> shortend tu <hi rend='italic'>i</hi>, and br[o]ken
bef[o]r <hi rend='italic'>h</hi> tu <hi rend='italic'>ái</hi>;
in Go[t]ik <hi rend='italic'>váit</hi> (Sk. veda, οἶδα), <hi rend='italic'>ai</hi>, iz
radikal <hi rend='italic'>i</hi> stre[n][t]end tu
<hi rend='italic'>ái</hi>. In Go[t]ik <hi rend='italic'>daúhtar</hi> (Sk.
duhitar θυγάτηρ), <hi rend='italic'>aú</hi> iz radikal
<hi rend='italic'>u</hi> br[o]ken tu <hi rend='italic'>aú</hi>; in
<hi rend='italic'>aúhna</hi> [u]ven (Sk.
a<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>na, ἰπνο=ἰκνο=ἀκνο), the <hi rend='italic'>au</hi> iz
<hi rend='italic'>a</hi>, darkend tu <hi rend='italic'>u</hi>,
and br[o]ken tu <hi rend='italic'>áu</hi>; hweil in Go[t]ik
<hi rend='italic'>báug</hi> (πέφευγα), <hi rend='italic'>áu</hi>
iz orijinal <hi rend='italic'>u</hi> stre[n][t]end tu <hi rend='italic'>áu</hi>.
Hwen w[i] h[i]r <hi rend='italic'>ê</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>ô</hi>
in Go[t]ik w[i] s[i] <hi rend='italic'>â</hi>, j[u]st az w[i] s[i]
Dorik <hi rend='italic'>ā</hi> beheind Eionik η. Hwen w[i]
h[i]r <hi rend='italic'>c</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>canis</hi>,
w[i] s[i] Sanskrit <hi rend='italic'>s</hi>; hwen w[i] h[i]r
<hi rend='italic'>c</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>cruor</hi>, w[i] s[i]
Sanskrit <hi rend='italic'>k</hi>. Hwen w[i] h[i]r γ in γένος,
w[i] s[i] [A]rian <hi rend='italic'>g</hi>;
hwen w[i] h[i]r γ in φλέγω w[i] s[i] [A]rian <hi rend='italic'>z</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Th[i]z fiu il[u]str[e]shonz wil ekspl[e]n, ei h[o]p the esenshal
diferens in the aplik[e]shon ov f[o]netiks tu filoloji
and deialektoloji, and wil sh[o] that in the former
our br[u]sh m[u]st ov nesesiti be br[w]d, hweil in the
later it m[u]st b[i] fein. It iz bei miksi[n] [u]p t[úe] separ[e]t
leinz ov reserch, [i]ch heili important in itself, that s[o]
m[u]ch konfiu[z]on haz ov l[e]t b[i]n ok[e][z]ond. The valiu
ov piurli f[o]netik obzerv[e]shonz shud on no akount b[i]
[u]nderr[e]ted; b[u]t it iz nesesari, for thát veri r[i]zon,
that deialektikal az wel az filolojikal f[o]netiks shud
b[i] konfeind tu th[e]r proper sf[i]r. The filolojist haz
m[u]ch tu lern from the f[o]netishan, b[u]t h[i] shud
never forget that h[i]r, az elshw[e]r, hwot iz br[w]d and
<pb n='182'/><anchor id='Pg182'/>
tipikal iz az important and az seientifikali akiuret az
hwot iz miniút and speshal.
</p>

<p>
Hwot iz br[w]d and tipikal iz often m[o]r akiuret
[i]ven than hwot iz miniút and speshal. It meit b[i]
posibel, for instans, bei a f[o]tografik proses, tu reprezent
the ekzakt pozishon ov the t[u][n] and the inseid
w[w]lz ov the mou[t] hweil w[i] pronoúns the Italian vouel
<hi rend='italic'>i</hi>. B[u]t it wud b[i] the gr[e]test mist[e]k tu s[u]p[o]z that this
imej givz [u]s the [o]nli w[e] in hwich thát vouel iz, and
kan b[i], pronoúnst. Th[o] [i]ch individiual m[e] hav hiz
[o]n w[e] ov plesi[n] the t[u][n] in pronoúnsi[n]
<hi rend='italic'>i</hi>, w[i] hav [o]nli
tu trei the experiment in order tu konvins ourselvz
that, with s[u]m efort, w[i] m[e] v[e]ri that pozishon in
meni w[e]z and yet prodiús the sound ov. <hi rend='italic'>i</hi>. Hwen,
th[e]rfor, in mei <q>Lektiurz on the Seiens ov La[n]gwej,</q>
ei g[e]v piktiurz ov the pozishonz ov the vokal organz
rekweird for pronounsi[n] the tipikal leterz ov the
alfabet, ei tuk gr[e]t k[e]r tu m[e]k them tipikal, thát iz,
tu l[i]v them r[u]f skechez rather than miniút f[o]tografs.
Ei kanot beter ekspres hwot ei f[i]l on this point than
bei kw[o]ti[n] the w[u]rdz ov Hæckel:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>For didaktik p[u]rposez, simpel sk[i]matik figiurz
ar far m[o]r y[ue]sful than piktiurz prezervi[n] the gr[e]test
f[e][t]fulnes tu n[e]tiur and karid out with the gr[e]test
akiurasi.</q> (<q>Ziele und Wege,</q> p. 37.)
</p>

<p>
[The following three letters, now introduced, will
complete the Phonetic Alphabet&mdash;
</p>

<p>
[dh] [ch] [sh]
</p>

<p>
for the sounds heard in&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>the</hi>n,
<hi rend='italic'>ch</hi>eap, <hi rend='italic'>sh</hi>e.]
</p>

<pb n='183'/><anchor id='Pg183'/>

<p>
Tu ret[u]rn, after [dh]is digre[sh]en, tu Mr. Pitman'z
alfabet, ei rep[i]t [dh]at it rekomendz itself tu mei
meind bei hwot [u][dh]erz k[w]l its inakiurasi. It [sh]ez
its r[i]al and praktikal wizdom bei not atempti[n] tu
fiks eni disti[n]k[sh]onz hwi[ch] ar not absol[ue]tli nesesari.
If, for instans, w[i] t[e]k [dh]e g[u]t[u]ral teniuis, w[i] feind
that I[n]gli[sh] rekogneizez w[u]n <hi rend='italic'>k</hi>
[o]nli, [w]l[dh]e its pron[u]nsi[e][sh]on
v[e]riz konsiderabli. It iz s[u]mteimz pronoúnst
s[o] az tu prodiús [w]lmost a [sh]arp krak; s[u]mteimz
it haz a d[i]p, hol[o] sound; and s[u]mteimz a soft,
l[e]zi, <hi rend='italic'>mouillé</hi> karakter. It v[e]riz konsiderabli akordi[n]
tu [dh]e vouelz hwi[ch] fol[o] it, az enibodi m[e] h[i]r, n[e]
f[i]l, if h[i] pronoúnsez in s[u]kse[sh]on, <hi rend='italic'>kot</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>k[ue]l</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>kar</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>kat</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>kit</hi>. B[u]t az I[n]gli[sh] d[u]z not
y[ue]z [dh][i]z diferent <hi rend='italic'>kz</hi> for
the p[u]rpos ov disti[n]gwi[sh]i[n] w[u]rdz or gramatikal formz,
w[u]n br[w]d kategori [o]nli ov voisles g[u]t[u]ral [ch]eks haz tu
b[i] admited in reiti[n] I[n]gli[sh]. In [dh]e Semitik la[n]gwejez
[dh]e k[e]s iz diferent; not [o]nli ar <hi rend='italic'>kaf</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>kof</hi> diferent
in sound, b[u]t [dh]is diforens iz y[ue]zd tu disti[n]gwi[sh] diferent
m[i]ni[n]z.
</p>

<p>
Or if w[i] t[e]k [dh]e vouel <hi rend='italic'>a</hi> in its orijinal,
piur pron[u]nsi[e][sh]on,
leik Italian <hi rend='italic'>a</hi>, w[i] kan [i]zili pers[i]v [dh]at it
haz diferent k[u]lorz in diferent kountiz ov I[n]gland.
Yet in reiti[n] it m[e] b[i] tr[i]ted az w[u]n, bek[w]z it haz
b[u]t w[u]n and [dh]e s[e]m gramatikal inten[sh]on, and d[u]z
not konv[é] a niu m[i]ni[n] til it eks[i]dz its weidest limits.
Gud sp[i]kerz in I[n]gland pronoúns [dh]e <hi rend='italic'>a</hi>
in <hi rend='italic'>last</hi> leik
[dh]e piur Italian <hi rend='italic'>a</hi>; wi[dh] [u][dh]erz it bek[u]mz br[w]d, wi[dh]
[u][dh]erz [t]in. B[u]t [dh]e it m[e] [dh][u]s osil[e]t konsiderabli, it
<pb n='184'/><anchor id='Pg184'/>
m[u]st not enkr[o][ch]; on [dh]e provins ov <hi rend='italic'>e</hi>,
hwi[ch] wud [ch][e]nj
its m[i]ni[n] tu <hi rend='italic'>lest</hi>; nor
on [dh]e provins ov <hi rend='italic'>o</hi>, hwk[ch] wud
[ch]enj it tu <hi rend='italic'>lost</hi>; nor on [dh]e
provins ov <hi rend='italic'>u</hi>, hwi[ch] wud [ch]enj
it tu <hi rend='italic'>lust</hi>.
</p>

<p>
[Dh]e difik[u]lti, [dh]erfor, hwi[ch] Ar[ch]bi[sh]op Trench haz
pointed out iz r[i]ali restrikted tu [dh][o]z k[e]sez hwer [dh]e
pron[u]nsi[e][sh]on ov vouelz&mdash;for it iz wi[dh] vouelz [ch][i]fli
[dh]at w[i] ar tr[u]beld&mdash;v[e]riz s[o] m[u][ch] az tu [o]verstep [dh]e
br[w]dest limits ov w[u]n ov [dh]e rekogneizd kategoriz
ov sound, and tu enkr[o][ch] on an[u][dh]er. If w[i] t[e]k [dh]e
w[u]rd <hi rend='italic'>fast</hi>, hwi[ch] iz pronoúnst veri diferentli [i]ven bei
ediuk[e]ted p[i]pel, [dh]er wud b[i] no nesesiti for indiketi[n]
in reiti[n] [dh]e diferent [sh][e]dz ov pron[u]nsi[e][sh]on hwi[ch] lei
betw[i]n [dh]e sound ov [dh]e [sh]ort Italian
<hi rend='italic'>a</hi> and [dh]e lo[n] <hi rend='italic'>a</hi>
herd in <hi rend='italic'>father</hi>. B[u]t hwen
[dh]e <hi rend='italic'>a</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>fast</hi> iz pronoúnst
leik [dh]e <hi rend='italic'>a</hi> in
<hi rend='italic'>fat</hi>, [dh]en [dh]e nesesiti ov a niu grafik
eksp[o]nent wud areiz, and Ar[ch]bi[sh]op Trench wud b[i]
reit in twiti[n] f[o]netik reformerz wi[dh] sa[n]k[sh]oni[n] t[úe]
speli[n]z for [dh]e s[e]m w[u]rd.
</p>

<p>
Ei kud men[sh]on [dh]e n[e]mz ov [t]r[i] bi[sh]ops, w[u]n ov
h[ue]m pronoúnst [dh]e vouel in <hi rend='italic'>God</hi>
leik <hi rend='italic'>G[w]d</hi>, an[u][dh]er
leik <hi rend='italic'>rod</hi>, a [t]erd leik
<hi rend='italic'>gad</hi>. [Dh]e last pron[u]nsi[e][sh]on wud
probabli b[i] kondemd bei everibodi, b[u]t [dh]e [u][dh]er t[ú]
wud rem[e]n sa[n]k[sh]ond bei [dh]e heiest [w][t]oriti, and [dh]erfor
ret[e]nd in fonetik reiti[n].
</p>

<p>
S[o] far, [dh]en, ei admit [dh]at Ar[ch]bi[sh]op Trench haz
pointed out a r[i]al difik[u]lti inh[i]rent in f[o]netik reiti[n];
b[u]t hwot iz [dh]at w[u]n difik[u]lti komp[e]rd wi[dh] [dh]e difik[u]ltiz
<pb n='185'/><anchor id='Pg185'/>
ov [dh]e prezent sistem ov I[n]gli[sh] speli[n]? It
wud not b[i] onest tu trei tu ev[e]d hiz [ch]arj, bei s[e]i[n]
[dh]at [dh]er iz b[u]t w[u]n pron[u]nsi[e][sh]on rekogneizd bei
[dh]e y[ue]zej ov ediuk[e]ted p[i]pel. [Dh]át iz not so, and
[dh][o]z h[ue] n[o] best [dh]e beioloji ov la[n]gwej, no [dh]at it
kan[o]t b[i] s[o]. [Dh]e veri leif ov la[n]gwej konsists in a
konstant fri[sh]on betw[i]n [dh]e sentripetal f[o]rs ov k[u]stom
and [dh]e sentrifiugal fors ov individiual fr[i]dom.
Agenst [dh]at difik[u]lti [dh][e]rfor, [dh]er iz n[o] remedi. [O]nli
h[i]r agen [dh]e Ar[ch]bi[sh]op s[i]mz tu hav overlukt [dh]e fakt
[dh]at [dh]e difik[u]lti belo[n]z tu [dh]e prezent sistem ov speli[n]
n[i]rli az m[u][ch] az tu [dh]e fonetik sistem. [Dh]er iz b[u]t
w[u]n rekogneizd w[e] ov speli[n], b[u]t everibodi pronoúnsez
akordi[n] tu hiz [o]n idiosinkrasiz. It wud b[i]
[dh]e s[e]m wi[dh] f[o]netik speli[n]. W[u]n pron[u]nsie[sh]on, [dh]e
best rekogneizd, wud hav tu b[i] adopted az a standard
in fonetik reiti[n], l[i]vi[n] tu everi Ingli[sh]man hiz fr[i]dom
tu pronoúns az s[i]me[t] gud tu him. W[i] [sh]ud l[ue]z n[u][t]i[n]
ov hwot w[i] nou pozés, and [w]l [dh]e advantejez ov
f[o]netik reiti[n] wud rem[e]n [u]nimp[e]rd. [Dh]e r[i]al st[e]t ov
[dh]e k[e]s iz, [dh][e]rfor, [dh]is&mdash;N[o]w[u]n defendz [dh]e prezent
sistem ov speli[n]; everiw[u]n admits [dh]e s[i]ri[u]s injuri
hwi[ch] it inflikts on na[sh]onal ediuk[e][sh]on. Everibodi
admits [dh]e praktikal advantejez ov fonetik speli[n],
b[u]t after [dh]át, [w]l eksklem [dh]at a reform ov speli[n],
hw[o]der par[sh]al or kompl[i]t, iz imposibel. Hwe[dh]er it
iz imposibel or not, ei gladli l[i]v tu men ov de w[u]rld
tu deseid. Az a skolar, az a stiudent ov [dh]e histori
ov la[n]gwej, ei simpli m[e]nten [dh]at in everi riten la[n]gwej
<pb n='186'/><anchor id='Pg186'/>
a reform ov speli[n] iz, s[ue]nler or l[e]ter, inevitabel.
N[o] dout [dh]e [i]vil d[e] m[e] b[i] put of. Ei hav litel dout
[dh]at it wil b[i] put of for meni jener[e][sh]onz, and [dh]at a
r[i]al reform wil probabli not b[i] karid eksept konk[u]rentli
wi[dh] a veiolent so[sh]al konv[u]l[sh]on. Onli let [dh]e
kwestion b[i] argiud f[e]rli. Let fakts hav s[u]m w[e]t,
and let it not b[i] s[u]p[o]zd bei men ov [dh]e w[u]rld [dh]at
[dh]oz h[ue] defend [dh]e prinsipelz ov [dh]e <hi rend='italic'>Fonetik Niuz</hi> ar
[o]nli t[i]totalerz and vejet[e]rianz, h[ue] hav never lernd hou
tu spel.
</p>

<p>
If ei hav sp[o]ken stro[n]li in s[u]port ov Mr. Pitman'z
sistem, it iz not bek[w]z on [w]l points ei konsider
it siup[i]rior tu [dh]e sistemz prep[e]rd bei [u][dh]er reformerz,
h[ue] ar d[e]li inkr[i]si[n] in n[u]mber, b[u]t [ch][i]fli
bek[w]z it haz b[i]n tested so larjli, and haz stud [dh]e
test wel. Mr. Pitman'z <hi rend='italic'>F[o]netik J[u]rnal</hi> haz nou
[1880] b[i]n p[u]bli[sh]t [t]erti-[e]t y[i]rz, and if it iz non [dh]at
it iz p[u]bli[sh]t w[i]kli in 12,000 kopiz, [i][ch] kopi reprezenti[n]
at l[i]st for or feiv r[i]derz, it m[e] not s[i]m so veri
f[ue]li[sh], after [w]l, if w[i] imajin [dh]at [dh]er iz s[u]m veital
pouer in [dh]át insiguifikant jerm.]
</p>

</div>

<pb n='187'/><anchor id='Pg187'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='V. On Sanskrit Texts Discovered In Japan.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='V. On Sanskrit Texts Discovered In Japan.'/>
<head type='sub'>V.</head>
<head>On Sanskrit Texts Discovered In Japan.</head>

<p rend="text-align: center">
Read At The Meeting Of The Royal Asiatic
Society, February 16, 1880.
</p>

<p>
It is probably in the recollection of some of the
senior members of this Society how wide and deep
an interest was excited in the year 1853 by the publication
of Stanislas Julien's translation of the <q>Life
and Travels of Hiouen-thsang.</q> The account given
by an eye-witness of the religious, social, political,
and literary state of India at the beginning of the
seventh century of our era was like a rocket, carrying
a rope to a whole crew of struggling scholars, on the
point of being drowned in the sea of Indian chronology;
and the rope was eagerly grasped by all,
whether their special object was the history of Indian
religion, or the history of Indian literature, architecture,
or politics. While many books on Indian
literature, published five-and-twenty years ago, are
now put aside and forgotten, Julien's three volumes
of Hiouen-thsang still maintain a fresh interest, and
supply new subjects for discussion, as may be seen
even in the last number of the Journal of your Society.
</p>

<p>
I had the honor and pleasure of working with
Stanislas Julien, when he was compiling those large
lists of Sanskrit and Chinese words which formed
<pb n='188'/><anchor id='Pg188'/>
the foundation of his translation of Hiouen-thsang,
and enabled him in his classical work, the <q>Méthode
pour déchiffrer et transcrire les noms Sanskrits</q>
(1861), to solve a riddle which had puzzled Oriental
scholars for a long time&mdash;viz., how it happened that
the original Sanskrit names had been so completely
disguised and rendered almost unrecognizable in the
Chinese translations of Sanskrit texts, and how they
could be restored to their original form.
</p>

<p>
I had likewise the honor and pleasure of working
with your late President, Professor H. H. Wilson,
when, after reading Julien's works, he conceived
the idea that some of the original Sanskrit texts of
which the Chinese translations had been recovered
might still be found in the monasteries of China.
His influential position as President of your Society,
and his personal relations with Sir John Bowring,
then English Resident in China, enabled him to set
in motion a powerful machinery for attaining his
object; and if you look back some five-and-twenty
years, you will find in your Journal a full account of
the correspondence that passed between Professor
Wilson, Sir J. Bowring, and Dr. Edkins, on the
search after Sanskrit MSS. in the temples or monasteries
of China.
</p>

<p>
On February 15, 1854, Professor Wilson writes
from Oxford to Sir John Bowring:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>I send you herewith a list of the Sanskrit works
carried to China by Hwen Tsang in the middle of
the seventh century, and in great part translated by
him, or under his supervision, into Chinese. If any
of them, <emph>especially the originals</emph>, should be still in
existence, you would do good service to Sanskrit
literature and to the history of Buddhism by procuring
copies.</q>
</p>

<pb n='189'/><anchor id='Pg189'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Chinese Translators of Sanskrit Texts.</hi>
</p>

<p>
It is a well-known fact that, even long before the
time of Hiouen-thsang&mdash;that is, long before the
seventh century of our era&mdash;large numbers of Sanskrit
MSS. had been exported to China. These literary
exportations began as early as the first century
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> When we read for the first time of commissioners
being sent to India by Ming-ti, the Emperor
of China, the second sovereign of the Eastern Han
dynasty, about 62 or 65 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, we are told that they
returned to China with a white horse, carrying books
and images.<note place='foot'>Beal, <hi rend='italic'>Travels
of Buddhist Pilgrims</hi>, Introd. p. xxi.; <hi rend='italic'>Chinese Repository</hi>,
vol. x. No. 3, March, 1841.</note> And the account proceeds to state that
<q>these books still remain, and are reverenced and
worshipped.</q>
</p>

<p>
From that time, when Buddhism was first officially
recognized in China,<note place='foot'>See an account of the Introduction of
Buddhism into China, in <hi rend='italic'>Journal Asiatique</hi>, 1856, August,
p. 105. <hi rend='italic'>Recherches sur l'origine des ordres religieux dans
l'empire chinois</hi>, par Bazin.</note> there is an almost unbroken
succession of importers and translators of Buddhist,
in some cases of Brahmanic texts also, till we come
to the two famous expeditions, the one undertaken
by Fa-hian in 400-415, the other by Hiouen-thsang,
629-645 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> Fa-hian's Travels were translated into
French by Abel Rémusat (1836), into English by
Mr. Beal (1869). Hiouen-thsang's Travels are well
known through Stanislas Julien's admirable translation.
Of Hiouen-thsang we are told that he brought
back from India no less than 520 fasciculi, or 657
separate works, which had to be carried by twenty-two
horses.<note place='foot'>Stan. Julien, <hi rend='italic'>Pèlerins
Bouddhistes</hi>, vol. i. p. 296.</note> He translated, or had translated, 740
works, forming 1,335 fasciculi.
</p>

<pb n='190'/><anchor id='Pg190'/>

<p>
I say nothing of earlier traces of Buddhism which
are supposed to occur in Chinese books. Whatever
they may amount to, we look in vain in them for evidence
of any Chinese translations of Buddhist books
before the time of the Emperor Ming-ti; and what
concerns us at present is, not the existence or the
spreading of Buddhism towards the north and east
long before the beginning of the Christian era, but
the existence of Buddhist books, so far as it can be
proved at that time by the existence of Chinese
translations the date of which can be fixed with sufficient
certainty.
</p>

<p>
In the following remarks on the history of these
translations I have had the great advantage of being
able to use the Annals of the Sui Dynasty (589-618),
kindly translated for me by Professor Legge. In
China the history of each dynasty was written under
the succeeding dynasty from documents which may
be supposed to be contemporaneous with the events
they relate. The account given in the Sui Chronicles
of the introduction of Buddhism and Buddhist
works into China is said to be the best general account
to be found in early Chinese literature, and the
facts here stated may be looked upon as far more
trustworthy than the notices hitherto relied upon, and
collected from Chinese writers of different dates and
different localities. I have also had the assistance of
Mr. Bunyiu Nanjio, who compared the names of the
translators mentioned in the Sui Annals with the
names as given in the K'ai-yuen-shih-kiao-mu-lu (Catalogue
of the Buddhist books compiled in the period
K'ai-yuen [<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> 713-741]); and though there still
remain some doubtful points, we may rest assured
that the dates assigned to the principal Chinese translators
<pb n='191'/><anchor id='Pg191'/>
and their works can be depended on as historically
trustworthy.
</p>

<p>
With regard to the period anterior to Ming-ti, the
Sui Chronicles tell us that after an investigation of
the records, it was known that Buddhism had not
been brought to China previously to the Han dynasty
(began 206 <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi>), though some say that it had long
been spread abroad, but had disappeared again in the
time of the <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>in<note place='foot'>Dr.
Edkins in his Notices of Buddhism in China (which unfortunately
are not paged) says that Indians arrived at the capital of China in Shensi
in 217 <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi> to propagate their religion.</note>
(221-206 <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi>). Afterwards, however,
when <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>ang-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ien was sent on a mission to the
regions of the West (about 130 <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi>), he is supposed
to have become acquainted with the religion of
Buddha. He was made prisoner by the Hiungnu
(Huns),<note place='foot'>Dr. Edkins, <hi rend='italic'>l. c.</hi>, states that
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>ang-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ien, on his return from the country
of the Getæ, informed the Emperor Wu-ti that he had seen articles of
traffic from Shindo. The commentator adds that the name is pronounced
Kando and Tindo, and that it is the country of the barbarians called Buddha
(<hi rend='italic'>sic</hi>).</note> and, being kept by them for ten years, he
may well have acquired during his captivity some
knowledge of Buddhism, which at a very early time
had spread from Cabul<note place='foot'>Kabul or Ko-fu is, in the Eastern
Han annals, called a state of the
Yüeh-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>i.</note> towards the north and the
east.
</p>

<p>
In the time of the Emperor Âi (<hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi> 6-2) we read
that <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>in-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>ing caused I-tsun to teach
the Buddhist Sûtras orally, but that the people gave no credence to
them. All this seems to rest on semi-historical evidence
only.
</p>

<p>
The first official recognition of Buddhism in China
dates from the reign of the Emperor Ming-ti, and the
following account, though not altogether free from a
<pb n='192'/><anchor id='Pg192'/>
legendary coloring, is generally accepted as authentic
by Chinese scholars: <q>The Emperor Ming-ti, of the
After Han dynasty (58-75 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>), dreamt that a
man of metal (or golden color) was flying and walking
in a courtyard of the palace. When he told his
dream in the Court, Fu-î said that the figure was
that of Buddha. On this the Emperor sent the gentleman-usher
Tsâi-yin and <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>in-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>ing (who must then
have been growing old) both to the country of the
great Yueh-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>i<note place='foot'>Generally identified with the
Getæ, but without sufficient proof.</note> and to India, in order to seek for such
an image.</q>
</p>

<p>
An earlier account of the same event is to be found
in the Annals of the After (or Eastern) Han dynasty
(25-120 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>). These annals were compiled by
Fan-yeh, who was afterwards condemned to death as
a rebel (445 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>). Here we read<note place='foot'>Translated
by Mr. Bunyiu Nanjio.</note> (vol. 88, fol.
8 a <hi rend='italic'>seq.</hi>): <q>There is a tradition that the Emperor
Ming-ti (58-75 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>) dreamt that there was a giant-like
man of golden color,<note place='foot'>The golden color or
suvarnavar<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>atâ is one of the thirty-two marks
of a Buddha, recognized both in the Southern and Northern schools (Burnouf,
<hi rend='italic'>Lotus</hi>, 579).</note> whose head was refulgent.
The Emperor wanted his retainers to interpret it.
Then some said, <q>There is a god (or spirit) in the
West who is called Fo, whose height is sixteen feet,
and of golden color.</q> Having heard this, the Emperor
at once sent messengers to Tien-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>u
(<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> India), to
inquire after the doctrine of Buddha. Subsequently,
copies of the image of Buddha were drawn in the
middle country (<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> China).</q>
</p>

<p>
The emissaries whom the Emperor Ming-ti had
sent to India obtained a Buddhist Sûtra in forty-two
sections, and an image of Buddha, with which and
the Shâmans Kâ<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>yapa Mâtaṅga and
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan, they
<pb n='193'/><anchor id='Pg193'/>
returned to the East. When Tsâi-yin approached
(the capital), he caused the book to be borne on a
white horse, and on this account the monastery of the
White Horse was built on the west of the Yung gate
of the city of Lo to lodge it. The classic was tied up
and placed in the stone house of the Lan tower, and,
moreover, pictures of the image were drawn and kept
in the <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>ing-yüan tower, and at the top of the
Hsien-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>ieh hill.
</p>

<p>
Here we seem to be on <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>terra firma</foreign>, for some
of the literary works by Kâsyapa Mâtaṅga and <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan
are still in existence. Kâsyapa Mâtaṅga (or, it may
be, Kâsya Mâtaṅga<note place='foot'>This name is
written in various ways, Ka-shio-ma-tô-giya, Ka-shio-ma-tô,
Shio-ma-tô, Ka-tô, Ma-tô. In the Fan-i-ming-i-tsi (vol. iii. fol. 4 a),
it is said <q>that K. was a native of Central India, and a Brâhman by caste.
Having been invited by the Chinese envoy, Tsâi-yin, he came to China,
saw the Emperor, and died in Lo-yang, the capital.</q> Of
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan it is said (<hi rend='italic'>l. c.</hi>
vol. iii. fol. 4) that he was a native of Central India, well versed
in Vinaya. When invited to go to China, the King would not let him depart.
He left secretly, and arrived in China after Kâsyapa. They translated
the Sûtra in forty-two sections together. After Kâsyapa died,
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan translated five Sûtras.</note>) is clearly a Sanskrit
name. Mâtaṅga, though the name of a <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>andâla or low-caste
man, might well be borne by a Buddhist priest.<note place='foot'>See Vasala-sutta
(in Nipâta-sutta), <hi rend='italic'>v.</hi> 22.</note>
The name of <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan, however, is more difficult.
Chinese scholars declare that it can only be a Chinese
name,<note place='foot'>Fa is the Buddhist equivalent for friar.</note> yet if
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan came from India with <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>âsyapa,
we should expect that he too bore a Sanskrit
name. In that case, <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û might be taken as the last
character of Tien-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>û, India, which character is prefixed
to the names of other Indian priests living in
China. His name would be Fâ-lan, <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> Dharma + x,
whatever lan may signify, perhaps padma, lotus.<note place='foot'>Mr. B. Nanjio
informs me that both in China and Japan Buddhist priests adopt either
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û, the last character of Tien-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>û, India,
or Shih, the first character of Shih-kia&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
Sâkya&mdash;as their surname.</note>
</p>

<pb n='194'/><anchor id='Pg194'/>

<p>
M. Feer,<note place='foot'>L. Feer, <hi rend='italic'>Sutra en 42 articles</hi>,
p. xxvii. <hi rend='italic'>Le Dhammapada par F. Hû,
suivi du Sutra en 42 articles</hi>, par Léon Feer, 1878, p. xxiv.</note>
calls him Gobhara<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a, without, however,
giving his authority for such a name. The Sutra of
the forty-two sections exists in Chinese, but neither
in Sanskrit nor in Pâli, and many difficulties would
be removed if we admitted, with M. Feer, that this
so-called Sûtra of the forty-two sections was really
the work of Kâ<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>yapa and <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan,
who considered such an epitome of Buddhist doctrines, based chiefly
on original texts, useful for their new converts in
China.
</p>

<p>
It is curious that the Sui Annals speak here of no
other literary work due to Kâ<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>yapa and
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan, though they afterwards mention the
Shih-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>u <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>ûtra
by <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan as a work almost unintelligible. In the
Fan-i-ming-i-tsi (vol. iii. fol. 4 b), mention is made
of five Sûtras, translated by <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan alone, after
Kâ<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>yapa's death. In the K'ai-yuen-shih-kiao-mu-lu
catalogue of the Buddhist books, compiled in the
period K'ai-yuen (713-741 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>), vol. i. fol. 6, four
Sûtras only are ascribed to <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fa-lan:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
1. The Da<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>abhûmi, called the Sûtra on the destruction
of the causes of perplexity in the ten stations;
70 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> This is the Shi-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>û Sûtra.
</p>

<p>
2. The Sûtra of the treasure of the sea of the law
(Dharma-samudra-kosha?).
</p>

<p>
3. The Sûtra of the original conduct of Buddha
(Fo-pen-hing-king); 68 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> (taken by Julien for a
translation of the Lalita-vistara).
</p>

<p>
4. The Sûtra of the original birth of Buddha
(<hi rend='italic'>G</hi>âtaka).
</p>

<p>
The compiler of the catalogue adds that these
translations have long been lost.
</p>

<pb n='195'/><anchor id='Pg195'/>

<p>
The next patron of Buddhism was Ying, the King
of <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>û, at the time of the Emperor <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>ang,
his father (76-88). Many Shâmans, it is said, came to China
then from the Western regions, bringing Buddhist
Sûtras. Some of these translations, however, proved
unintelligible.
</p>

<p>
During the reign of the Emperor Hwan (147-167),
An-shi-kao (usually called An-shing), a Shâman of
An-hsi,<note place='foot'>In Beal's <hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>
this name is spelt An-shi-ko, An-shi-kao, and
Ngan-shai-ko.</note> brought classical books to Lo, and translated
them. This is evidently the same translator of whom
Mr. Beal (<q>J. R. A. S.</q> 1856, pp. 327, 332) speaks
as a native of Eastern Persia or Parthia, and whose
name Mr. Wylie wished to identify with Arsak. As
An-shi-kao is reported to have been a royal prince,
who made himself a mendicant and travelled as far
as China, Mr. Wylie supposes that he was the son of
one of the Arsacidæ, Kings of Persia. Mr. Beal on
the contrary, takes the name to be a corruption of
A<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>vaka or Assaka&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
Ἱππάσιοι.<note place='foot'>His translations occur in Beal's
<hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>, pp. 31, 35, 37, 38, 40 (<hi rend='italic'>bis</hi>),
41 (<hi rend='italic'>bis</hi>), 42 (<hi rend='italic'>bis</hi>), 43, 45, 46, 47, 49,
50, 51 (<hi rend='italic'>ter</hi>), 52 (<hi rend='italic'>bis</hi>), 54, 70, 88, 95
(<hi rend='italic'>bis</hi>). In the K'ai-yuen-lu it is stated that he translated
99 works in 115 fascicles.</note>
</p>

<p>
Under the Emperor Ling, 168-189 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>an
(or <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-tsin), a Shâman from the
Yueh-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>i (called
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-lau-kia-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>uai by Beal),
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fo-soh (Ta-fo-sa), an
Indian Shâman, and others, worked together to produce
a translation of the Nirvâ<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a-sûtra, in two sections.
The K'ai-yuen-lu ascribes twenty-three works
to <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>an, and two Sûtras
to <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fo-soh.
</p>

<p>
Towards the end of the Han dynasty, <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>u-yung,
the grand guardian, was a follower of Buddha.
</p>

<p>
In the time of the Three Kingdoms (220-264)
<pb n='196'/><anchor id='Pg196'/>
Khang-sang-hui, a Shâman of the Western regions,
came to Wû<note place='foot'>Wû, comprising <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>eh-kiang
and other parts, with its capital in what is
now Sû-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>au, was the southern one of
the Three Kingdoms. Sun-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>üan
was its first sovereign.</note> with Sûtras and translated them.
Sun-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>üan, the sovereign, believed in Buddhism.
About the same time Khang-sang-khai translated
the longer text of the Sukhavatîvyûha.
</p>

<p>
In Wei,<note place='foot'>The northern of the Three Kingdoms, with its capital
latterly in Lo-yang.</note> during the period Hwang-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>u (220-226)
the Chinese first observed the Buddhist precepts,
shaved their heads, and became Sang&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> monks.
</p>

<p>
Even before this, a Shâman of the Western regions
had come here and translated the Hsiâo-pin
Sûtra&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> the
Sûtra of Smaller Matters (Khudda-kanikâya?)&mdash;but
the head and tail of it were contradictory,
so that it could not be understood.
</p>

<p>
In the period Kan-lû (256-259), <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-shi-hsing
(Chu-shuh-lan, in Beal's <q>Catalogue</q>) went to the
West as far as Khoten, and obtained a Sûtra in ninety
sections, with which he came back to Yéh, in the
Tsin period of Yüen-khang (291-299), and translated
it (with Dharmaraksha) under the title of <q>Light-emitting
Pra<hi rend='italic'>gn</hi>â-pâramitâ Sûtra.</q><note place='foot'>See Beal,
<hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>, p. 5.</note>
</p>

<p>
In the period Thai-shi (265-274), under the Western
Tsin (265-316), Kû-fâ-hu<note place='foot'>This name,
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fâ-hu, is generally re-translated as Dharmaraksha.
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û is the second character in Tien-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>û,
the name of India, and this character
was used as their surname by many Indian priests while living in China.
In that case their Sanskrit names were mostly translated into two Chinese
characters: as Fâ, (law = dharma), hu (protection = raksha).&mdash;B. N.</note>
(Dharmaraksha), a
Shâman of the Yüeh-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>i, travelled through the various
kingdoms of the West, and brought a large collection
of books home to Lo, where he translated them. It
is stated in the Catalogue of the Great <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>au, an interlude
<pb n='197'/><anchor id='Pg197'/>
in the dynasty of Thang (690-705 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>), that
in the seventh year of the period Thai-khang (286)
he translated <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>ing-fa-hwa&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
the Saddharma-pu<hi rend='italic'>nd</hi>arîka
(Beal, <q>Catalogue,</q> p. 14).<note place='foot'>According to Mr. Beal
(Fahian, p. xxiii.), this <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fâ-hu, with the help
of other Shâmans, translated no less than 165 texts, and among them the
Lalita-vistara (Pou-yao-king), the Nirvâ<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a Sûtra,
and the Suvar<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a-prabhâsa-Sûtra
(265-308). The K'ai-yuen-lu assigns to him 275 works, in 354
fascicles.</note>
</p>

<p>
About 300 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-kung-ming
translated the Wei-ma (Vimala-kîrtti) and Fa-hwa
(Saddharma-pu<hi rend='italic'>nd</hi>arîka).<note place='foot'>Edkins,
<hi rend='italic'>l. c.</hi> Beal, <hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>, p. 17; 14.</note>
</p>

<p>
In 335 the prince of the <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>au kingdom (during
the Tsin dynasty) permitted his subjects to become Shâmans,
influenced chiefly by Buddhasi<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>ha.<note place='foot'>Edkins,
<hi rend='italic'>l. c.</hi></note>
</p>

<p>
In the time of the rebel Shih-leh, 330-333, during
the Tsin dynasty, a Shâman Wei-tao-an, or Tao-an,
of <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>ang-shan, studied Buddhist literature under
Buddhasi<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>ha. He produced a more correct translation
of the Vimala-kîrtti-sûtra (and Saddharma-pu<hi rend='italic'>nd</hi>arîka),
and taught it widely; but as he was not an
original translator, his name is not mentioned in the
K'ai-yuen-lu. On account of political troubles, Tâo-an
led his disciples southward, to Hsin-ye, and dispatched
them to different quarters&mdash;Fâ-shang to
Yang-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>âu, Fâ-hwa to Shû&mdash;while he himself, with
Wei-yüan, went to Hsiang-yang and <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>ang-an. Here
Fu-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ien, the sovereign of the Fûs, who about 350
had got possession of <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>ang-an, resisting the authority
of the Tsin, and establishing the dynasty of the
Former <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>in, received him with distinction. It was
at the wish of Tâo-an that Fu-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ien invited
Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva
to <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>ang-an; but when, after a long delay,
Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva arrived there, in the second year of the
<pb n='198'/><anchor id='Pg198'/>
period Hung-shi (400 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>), under Yâo-hsing, who,
in 394, had succeeded Yâo-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ang,<note place='foot'>The Yâos
subdued the Fûs, and ruled as the dynasty of the After
<hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>in.</note> the founder of the
After <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>in dynasty, Tâo-an had been dead already
twenty years. His corrected translations, however,
were approved by Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva.
</p>

<p>
This Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva marks a new period of great activity
in the translation of Buddhist texts. He is
said to have come from Ku-tsi, in Tibet, where the
Emperor Yâo-hsing (397-415) sent for him. Among
his translations are mentioned the Wei-ma or Vima-la-kîrtti-sûtra
(Beal's <q>Catalogue,</q> p. 17); the Saddharma-pu<hi rend='italic'>nd</hi>arîka
(Beal's <q>Catalogue,</q> p. 15); the
Satyasiddha-vyâkara<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a <hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âstra (Beal's
<q>Catalogue,</q> p. 80). He was a contemporary of the great traveller,
Fa-hian, who went from <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>ang-an to India, travelled
through more than thirty states, and came back to
Nanking in 414, to find the Emperor Yâo-hsing overturned
by the Eastern Tsin dynasty. He was accompanied
by the Indian contemplationist, Buddha-bhadra.<note place='foot'>See
<ref target="Pg208">p. 208</ref>. He is sometimes called Balasan, or, according to Edkins,
Palat'sanga, Baddala, or Dabadara. In the Fan-i-ming-i-tsi (vol. iii. fol.
6) the following account of Buddhabhadra is given: <q>Buddhabhadra met
Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>iva in China, and whenever the latter found any doubts,
the former was always asked for an explanation. In the fourteenth year of Î-hsi
(418 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>) Buddhabhadra translated the Fa-yan-king in sixty
volumes.</q> This Sûtra is the Ta-fang-kwang-fo-fa-yan-king,
Buddhâvata<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>saka-vai-pulya-sûtra
(Beal's <hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>, p. 9). This translation was brought to
Japan in 736.</note>
Buddhabhadra translated the Fa-yan-king,
the Buddhâvata<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>saka-vaipulya-sûtra (Beal's <q>Catalogue,</q>
p. 9), and he and Fa-hian together, the
Mo-ho-sang-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>i-liu&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
the Vinaya of the Mahâsaṅghika
school (Beal, <q>Catalogue,</q> p. 68).
</p>

<p>
Another Shâman who travelled to India about the
same time was <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-mang, of Hsin-fang, a district city
<pb n='199'/><anchor id='Pg199'/>
of Kâo-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ang. In 419, in the period Yüan-hsi, he
went as far as Pâ<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>ali-putra, where he obtained the
Nirva<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a-sûtra, and the Saṅghika, a book of
discipline.<note place='foot'>The Sang-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>i-liu, rules of
priesthood; <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> the Vinaya of the
Mahâsaṅghika school.</note>
After his return to Kâo-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ang he translated
the Nirvâ<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a-sûtra in twenty sections.
</p>

<p>
Afterwards the Indian Shâman Dharmaraksha II.<note place='foot'>I call him
Dharmaraksha II., in order to prevent a confusion which has
been produced by identifying two Shâmans who lived at a distance of nearly
200 years&mdash;the one 250 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, the other 420
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> The first is called <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>û-fâ-hu,
which can be rendered Dharmaraksha; the second is called Fâ-făng
(law-prosperity), but, if transliterated, he is best known by the names T`on-mo-la-tsin,
T`an-mo-tsin, or Dharmalatsin. He was a native of Central
India, and arrived in China in the first year of the period Hiouen-shi of
the Tsü-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>u family of the Northern Liang, 414
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> He was the contemporary
of <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-mang, whom Mr. Beal places about 250
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, in order to
make him a contemporary of Dharmaraksha I.</note>
brought other copies of the foreign MSS. to the West
of the Ho. And Tsü-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ü Mung-sun, the king of North
Liang, sent messengers to Kâo-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ang for the copy
which <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-mang had brought, wishing to compare the
two.<note place='foot'>Mung-sun died 432, and was succeeded by his heir, who lost his
kingdom in 439. Yâo-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ang's kingdom, however, was destroyed
by the Eastern Tsin, at the time of his second successor, 417, not by Mung-sun.</note>
</p>

<p>
When <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-mang's copy arrived,<note place='foot'>It is said
in the tenth year of the period Hung-shi of Yâo-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ang (better
hsing), the copy arrived at <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>ang-an. But this cannot be,
if <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-mang went to India in 419. There must be something
wrong in these dates.</note> a translation was
made of it in thirty sections. Dharmaraksha II.
translated the Suvar<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a-prabhâsa and the
Nirvâ<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a-Sutrâ, 416-423 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>
The K'ai-yuen-lu ascribes nineteen works to Dharmalatsin in 131 fascicles.
</p>

<p>
Buddhism from that time spread very rapidly in
China, and the translations became too numerous to
be all mentioned.
</p>

<p>
The Mahâyâna school was represented at that time
chiefly by the following translations:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='200'/><anchor id='Pg200'/>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
Translated by Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva:<lb/>
The Vimalakîrtti-sûtra (Beal, <q>Catalogue,</q> p. 17.<lb/>
The Saddharmapun<hi rend='italic'>nd</hi>arika-sûtra (Beal, <q>Catalogue,</q> p. 15)<lb/>
The Satyasiddhavyâkara<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a-<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âstra
(Beal, <q>Catalogue,</q> p. 80)
</p>

<p>
Translated by Dharmalatsin, or Dharmaraksha II.:<lb/>
The Suvar<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>aprabhâsa-sûtra (Beal, <q>Catalogue,</q> p. 15)<lb/>
The Nirvâ<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a-sûtra (Beal, <q>Catalogue.</q> p. 12)
</p>
</quote>

<p>
The Hînayâna school was represented by&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
The Sarvâstivâda-vinaya by Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva (Beal, <q>Catalogue,</q>
pp. 67, 68).
</p>

<p>
The Dîrghâgama-sûtra, by Buddhaya<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>as, 410
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> (Beal,
<q>Catalogue,</q> p. 36).
</p>

<p>
The Vinaya of the four Parts, by
Buddhaya<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>as.<note place='foot'>The four Nikâyas or Âgamas;
<hi rend='italic'>cf.</hi> Vinayapi<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>aka, vol. i. p. xl.</note>
</p>

<p>
The Ekottarâgama-sûtra (Aṅguttara), translated by Dharmanandin,
of Tukhâra (Fa-hsi).
</p>

<p>
The Abhidharma disquisitions, by Dharmayasas,<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputrâbhidharma-<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âstra;
<hi rend='italic'>cf.</hi> Beal, <hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>, p. 80.</note>
of Kophene.
</p>
</quote>

<p>
During the period of Lung-an (397-401) the Ekottarâgama
(Anguttara) and Madhyamâgama-sûtras<note place='foot'>Beal,
<hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>, p. 36.</note>
were translated by Saṅghadeva of Kophene. This is
probably the Ma<hi rend='italic'>gg</hi>hima Nikâya, translated by Gotama
Saṅghadeva, under the Eastern Tsin dynasty,
317-419.
</p>

<p>
In the period Î-hsi (405-418) the Shâman <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-fâ-ling
brought from Khoten to Nanking, the southern
capital, the Hwâ-yen Sûtra in 36,000 gâthâs, and
translated it. This may be the Buddhâvata<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>saka-sûtra,
called the Ta-fang-kwang-fo-fa-yan-king (Beal's
<q>Catalogue,</q> pp. 9, 10). This translator is not mentioned
in the K'ai-yuen-lu.
</p>

<pb n='201'/><anchor id='Pg201'/>

<p>
In 420 the Tsin dynasty came to an end.
</p>

<p>
The Emperor Thai-wu (424-452), of the N. Wei
dynasty, persecuted the Buddhists, 446; but from the
year 452 they were tolerated. This dynasty lasted
from 386 to 535, when it was divided into two.
</p>

<p>
In 458 there was a conspiracy under Buddhist influences,
and more stringent laws were enforced against
them.
</p>

<p>
In 460 five Buddhists arrived in China from Ceylon,
<hi rend='italic'>viâ</hi> Tibet. Two of them, Yashaita, and Vudanandi,
brought images.<note place='foot'>Edkins, <hi rend='italic'>l. c.</hi></note>
In 502 a Hindu translated
Mahâyâna books, called Fixed Positions and Ten
Positions.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ibid.</hi></note>
</p>

<p>
During the dynasties of <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>î (479-502), Liang
(502-557), and <hi rend='italic'>Kh</hi>in (557-589), many famous Shâmans
came to China, and translated books.
</p>

<p>
The Emperor Wû of Liang (502-549) paid great
honor to Buddhism. He made a large collection of
the Buddhist canonical books, amounting to 5,400
volumes, in the Hwâ-lin garden. The Shâman Pao-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ang
compiled the catalogue in fifty-four fascicles.
</p>

<p>
In the period Yung-ping, 508-511, there was an
Indian Shâman Bodhiru<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>i, who translated many
books, as Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva had done. Among them were
the Earth-holding <hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âstra (bhûmîdhara
<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âstra?) and the Shi-ti-king-lun, the
Da<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>abhûmika <hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âstra, greatly
valued by the followers of the Mahâyâna.<note place='foot'>Beal,
<hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>, p. 77; on p. 20
a translation of the Lankâvatâra is mentioned.</note>
</p>

<p>
In 516, during the period Hsî-phing, the Chinese
Shâman Wei-shang was sent to the West to collect
Sûtras and Vinayas, and brought back a collection
of 170 books. He is not, however, mentioned as a
translator in the K'ai-yuen-lu.
</p>

<pb n='202'/><anchor id='Pg202'/>

<p>
In 518 Sung-yun, sent by the queen of the Wei
country from Lo-yang to India, returned after three
years, with 175 volumes. He lived to see Bodhidharma
in his coffin. This Bodhidharma, the twenty-eighth
patriarch, had arrived in Canton by sea in 528,
in the time of Wu-ti, the first Emperor of the Liang
dynasty. Some Sanskrit MSS. that had belonged to
him, and other relics, are still preserved in Japan.<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Athenæum</hi>, August 7, 1880; and
<hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, p. 370.</note>
</p>

<p>
In the time of the Emperor Wû, of the Northern
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>âu dynasty (561-577), a Shâman, Wei-yüan-sung,
accused the Buddhist priests, and the Emperor persecuted
them. But in the first year of Kao-tsu, the
founder of the Sui dynasty, in 589, toleration was
again proclaimed. He ordered the people to pay a
certain sum of money, according to the number of the
members of each family, for the purpose of preparing
Sûtras (the Buddhist canon) and images. And the
Government caused copies of the whole Buddhist
canon to be made, and placed them in certain temples
or monasteries in the capital, and in several other
large cities, in such provinces as Ping-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>âu,
Hsiang-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>âu,
Lo-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>âu, etc. And the Government caused also
another copy to be made and to be deposited in the
Imperial Library. The Buddhist sacred books among
the people were found to be several hundred times
more numerous than those on the six Kings of Confucius.
There were 1,950 distinct Buddhist books
translated.
</p>

<p>
In the period Tâ-yeh (605-616) the Emperor ordered
the Shâman <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-kwo to compose a catalogue of
the Buddhist books at the Imperial Buddhist chapel
within the gate of the palace. He then made some
divisions and classifications, which were as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='203'/><anchor id='Pg203'/>

<p>
The Sûtras which contained what Buddha had
spoken were arranged under three divisions:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
1. The Mahâyâna.<lb/>
2. The Hînayâna.<lb/>
3. The Mixed Sûtras.
</p>

<p>
Other books, that seemed to be the productions of
later men, who falsely ascribed their works to greater
names, were classed as Doubtful Books.
</p>

<p>
There were other works in which Bodhisattvas and
others went deeply into the explanation of the meaning,
and illustrated the principles of Buddha. These
were called Disquisitions, or <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âstras. Then there
were Vinaya, or compilations of precepts, under each
division as before, Mahâyâna, Hînayâna, Mixed.
There were also Records, or accounts of the doings
in their times of those who had been students of the
system. Altogether there were eleven classes under
which the books were arranged:&mdash;
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm} p{2.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(20) lw(20) lw(30)'">
<row><cell>1. Sûtra.</cell><cell>Mahâyâna</cell><cell>617 in 2,076 chapters.</cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell>Mixed</cell><cell>487 in 852 chapters.</cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell>Mixed and doubtful</cell><cell>172 in 336 chapters.</cell></row>
<row><cell>2. Vinaya.</cell><cell>Mahâyâna</cell><cell>52 in 91 chapters.</cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell>Hînayâna</cell><cell>80 in 472 chapters.</cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell>Mixed</cell><cell>27 in 46 chapters.</cell></row>
<row><cell>3. <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âstra.</cell><cell>Mahâyâna</cell>
     <cell>35 in 141 chapters.</cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell>Hînayâna</cell><cell>41 in 567 chapters.</cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell>Mixed</cell><cell>51 in 437 chapters.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell></cell><cell>1962 in 6,198 chapters.</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Search for Sanskrit MSS. in China.</hi>
</p>

<p>
It was the publication of Hiouen-thsang's Travels
which roused the hopes of Professor Wilson that
some of the old Sanskrit MSS. which had been carried
<pb n='204'/><anchor id='Pg204'/>
away from India might still be discovered in
China.<note place='foot'>A long list of Sanskrit texts translated into Chinese may be
found in the <hi rend='italic'>Journal Asiatique</hi>, 1849, p. 353
<hi rend='italic'>seq.</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>s. t.</hi> <q>Concordance
Sinico-Samskrite d'un nombre considérable de titres d'ouvrages Bouddhiques, recueillie
dans un Catalogue Chinois de l'an 1306, par M. Stanislas Julien.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
But though no pains were spared by Sir John Bowring
to carry out Professor Wilson's wishes, though
he had catalogues sent to him from Buddhist libraries,
and from cities where Buddhist compositions
might be expected to exist, the results were disappointing,
at least so far as Sanskrit texts were concerned.
A number of interesting Chinese books,
translated from Sanskrit by Hiouen-thsang and others,
works also by native Chinese Buddhists, were
sent to the library of the East India House; but
what Professor Wilson and all Sanskrit scholars with
him most desired, Sanskrit MSS., or copies of Sanskrit
MSS., were not forthcoming. Professor Wilson
showed me, indeed, one copy of a Sanskrit MS. that
was sent to him from China, and, so far as I remember,
it was the Kâla-<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>akra,<note place='foot'>Csoma Körösi,
<hi rend='italic'>As. Res.</hi> vol. xx. p. 418. <hi rend='italic'>Journal
Asiatique</hi>, 1849, p. 356.</note> which we know as one
of the books translated from Sanskrit into Chinese.
That MS., however, is no longer to be found in the
India Office Library, though it certainly existed in
the old East India House.
</p>

<p>
The disappointment at the failure of Professor
Wilson's and Sir J. Bowring's united efforts was felt
all the more keenly because neither Sanskrit nor
Chinese scholars could surrender the conviction that,
until a very short time ago, Indian MSS. had existed
in China. They had been seen by Europeans, such
as Dr. Gutzlaff, the hard-working missionary in China,
<pb n='205'/><anchor id='Pg205'/>
who in a paper, written shortly before his death, and
addressed to Colonel Sykes (<q>Journal R. A. S.</q> 1856,
p. 73), stated that he himself had seen Pâli MSS.
preserved by Buddhist priests in China. Whether
these MSS. were in Pâli or Sanskrit would matter
little, supposing even that Dr. Gutzlaff could not
distinguish between the two. He speaks with great
contempt of the whole Buddhist literature. There
was not a single priest, he says, capable of explaining
the meaning of the Pâli texts, though some were
interlined with Chinese. <q>A few works,</q> he writes,
<q>are found in a character originally used for writing
the Pâli, and may be considered as faithful transcripts
of the earliest writings of Buddhism. They
are looked upon as very sacred, full of mysteries and
deep significations, and therefore as the most precious
relics of the founder of their creed. With the
letters of this alphabet the priests perform
incantations<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Cf.</hi> Beal,
<hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>, p. 66.</note>
to expel demons, rescue souls from hell, bring
down rain on the earth, remove calamities, etc. They
turn and twist them in every shape, and maintain
that the very demons tremble at the recitation of
them.</q>
</p>

<p>
Another clear proof of the existence of Sanskrit
MSS. in China is found in the account of a <q>Trip to
Ning-po and T'hëen-t'hae,</q> by Dr. Edkins. After
he had arrived at Fang-kwang, he ascended the Hwa-ling
hill, and at the top of the hill he describes a
small temple with a priest residing in it. <q>Scattered
over the hill,</q> he adds, <q>there are various little
temples where priests reside, but the one at the
top is the most celebrated, as being the place where
Che-k'hae spent a portion of his time, worshipping
<pb n='206'/><anchor id='Pg206'/>
a Sanskrit manuscript of a Buddhist classic.</q> On
his return he arrived at the pagoda erected to the
memory of Che-k'hae, the founder of the Thëen-t'hae
system of Buddhism, in the Chin dynasty (about 580
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>). And a little farther on, situated in a deep
dell on the left, was the monastery of Kaon-ming-sze.
This is particularly celebrated for its possession of a
Sanskrit MS., written on the palm leaf, once read
and explained by Che-k'hae, but now unintelligible
to any of the followers of Buddhism in these parts.
The priests seemed to pay uncommon reverence to
this MS., which is the only one of the kind to be
found in the East of China, and thus of great importance
in a literary point of view. It is more than
1,300 years old, but is in a state of perfect preservation,
in consequence of the palm leaves, which are
written on both sides, having been carefully let into
slips of wood, which are fitted on the same central
pin, and the whole, amounting to fifty leaves, inclosed
in a rosewood box.
</p>

<p>
This may account for the unwillingness of the
priests to part with their old MSS., whether Sanskrit
or Pâli, but it proves at the same time that they still
exist, and naturally keeps up the hope that some day
or other we may still get a sight of them.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Materials on which Sanskrit MSS. were written.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Of course, it might be said that if MSS. did not
last very long in India, neither would they do so in
China. But even then, we might expect at least
that as in India the old MSS. were copied whenever
they showed signs of decay, so they would have been
in China. Besides, the climate of China is not so
destructive as the heat and moisture of the climate
<pb n='207'/><anchor id='Pg207'/>
of India. In India, MSS. seldom last over a thousand
years. Long before that time paper made of
vegetable substances decays, palm-leaves and birch-bark
become brittle, and white ants often destroy
what might have escaped the ravages of the climate.
It was the duty, therefore, of Indian Rajahs to keep
a staff of librarians, who had to copy the old MSS.
whenever they began to seem unsafe, a fact which
accounts both for the modern date of most of our
Sanskrit MSS. and for the large number of copies of
the same text often met with in the same library.
</p>

<p>
The MSS. carried off to China were in all likelihood
not written on paper, or whatever we like to
call the material which Nearchus describes <q>as cotton
well beaten together,</q><note place='foot'>The modern paper in Nepal is said to date
from 500 years ago (Hodgson, <hi rend='italic'>Essays</hi>).</note>
but on the bark of the birch
tree or on palm leaves. The bark of trees is mentioned
as a writing material used in India by Curtius;<note place='foot'>M. M.,
<hi rend='italic'>History of Ancient Sanskrit Literature</hi>, p. 516.</note>
and in Buddhist Sûtras, such as the Kara<hi rend='italic'>nd</hi>a-vyûha
(p. 69), we actually read of bhûr<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>a, birch,
mâsi, ink, and karama (kalam), as the common
requisites for writing. MSS. written on that
material have long been known in Europe, chiefly as
curiosities (I had to write many years ago about one
of them, preserved in the Library at All Souls' College).
Of late,<note place='foot'>Burnell, <hi rend='italic'>South Indian Palæography</hi>,
2d ed. p. 84 <hi rend='italic'>seq.</hi></note> however, they have attracted more
serious attention, particularly since Dr. Bühler discovered
in Kashmir old MSS. containing independent
rescensions of Vedic texts, written on birch bark.
One of these, containing the whole text of the Rig-Veda
Sa<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>hitâ<note place='foot'>See <hi rend='italic'>Sacred Books
of the East</hi>, vol. i., Upanishads, Introduction, p. lxxviii.</note>
with accents, was sent to me, and
<pb n='208'/><anchor id='Pg208'/>
though it had suffered a good deal, particularly on
the margins, it shows that there was no difficulty in
producing from the bark of the birch tree thousands
and thousands of pages of the largest quarto or even
folio size, perfectly smooth and pure, except for the
small dark lines peculiar to the bark of that tree.<note place='foot'>Dr. Bühler
(<hi rend='italic'>Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Bombay,</hi> 1877, p.
29) has the following interesting remarks: <q>The Bhûrga MSS. are written
on specially-prepared thin sheets of the inner bark of the Himalayan birch
(<hi rend='italic'>Bœtula Bhojpatr.</hi> Wallich), and invariably in Sâradâ
characters. The lines run always parallel to the narrow side of the leaf, and the MSS.
present, therefore, the appearance of European books, not of Indian MSS.,
which owe their form to an imitation of the Tâlapatras. The Himâlaya
seems to contain an inexhaustible supply of birch bark, which in Kasmîr
and other hill countries is used both instead of paper by the shopkeepers
in the bazaars, and for lining the roofs of houses in order to make them
water-tight. It is also exported to India, where in many places it is likewise
used for wrapping up parcels, and plays an important part in the
manufacture of the flexible pipe-stems used by hukâ smokers. To give an
idea of the quantities which are brought into Srînagar, I may mention that
on one single day I counted fourteen large barges with birch bark on the
river.... The use of birch bark for literary purposes is attested by the
earliest classical Sanskrit writers. Kâlidâsa mentions it in his dramas
and epics; Sustuta, Varâhamihira (<hi rend='italic'>circa</hi> 500-550
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>) know it likewise. As is the case with nearly all old
customs, the use of birch bark for writing still survives in India, though the fact
is little known. Mantras, which are worn as amulets, are written on pieces of
Bhûrga with ash<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>au gandbâ<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>, a
mixture of eight odoriferous substances&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>e. g.</hi>
camphor, sandal, tumeric&mdash;which vary according to the deity to which
the writing is dedicated. The custom prevails in Bengal as well as in Gujarât.
Birch-bark MSS. occur in Orissa. The Petersburg Dictionary refers to a passage
in the Kâ<hi rend='italic'>th</hi>aka, the redaction of the Yajurveda formerly current
in Kasmîr, where the word Bhûr<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>a occurs, though it is not clear
if it is mentioned there too as material for writing on. The Kasmirian Pandits assert,
and apparently with good reason, that in Kasmîr all books were written on
bhûrgapattras from the earliest times until after the conquest of the Valley
by Akbar, about 200-250 years ago. Akbar introduced the manufacture
of paper, and thus created an industry for which Kasmîr is now famous
in India.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
At the time of Hiouen-thsang, in the seventh century,
palm leaves seem to have been the chief material
for writing. He mentions a forest of palm-trees
(<hi rend='italic'>Borassus flabelliformis</hi>) near
Konka<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>apura (the
<pb n='209'/><anchor id='Pg209'/>
Western coast of the Dekhan),<note place='foot'>Dr. Burnell,
<hi rend='italic'>Indian Antiquary</hi>, 1880, p. 234, shows that
Koṅka<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>apura is
Koṅka<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>ah<hi rend='italic'>ll</hi>i
in the Mysore territory.</note> which was much
prized on account of its supplying material for writing
(vol. i. p. 202, and vol. iii. p. 148). At a later
time, too, in 965, we read of Buddhist priests returning
to China with Sanskrit copies of Buddhist books
written on palm leaves (peito).<note place='foot'>Beal's <hi rend='italic'>Travels of
Buddhist Pilgrims</hi>, Introd. p. xlvi.</note> If we could believe
Hiouen-thsang, the palm leaf would have been
used even so early as the first Buddhist
Council,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Pèterins Buuddhistes</hi>, vol. i. p.
158.</note> for
he says that Kâsyapa then wrote the Pi<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>akas on palm
leaves (tâla), and spread them over the whole of
India. In the Pâli <hi rend='italic'>G</hi>âtakas, pa<hi rend='italic'>nn</hi>a
is used in the sense of letter, but originally par<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a meant a
wing, then a leaf of a tree, then a leaf for writing. Pa<hi rend='italic'>tt</hi>a,
also, which is used in the sense of a sheet, was originally
pattra, a wing, a leaf of a tree.
Suva<hi rend='italic'>nn</hi>a-pa<hi rend='italic'>tt</hi>a,
a golden leaf to write on, still shows that the
original writing material had been the leaves of trees,
most likely of palm-trees.<note place='foot'>Fausböll,
<hi rend='italic'>Dasaratha-jā</hi>taka, p. 25.</note> Potthaka,
<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> pustaka,
book, likewise occurs in the Pâli
<hi rend='italic'>G</hi>âtakas.<note place='foot'>See, also, Albiruni, as quoted
by Reinaud, <hi rend='italic'>Memoir sur l'Inde</hi>, p. 305.</note>
</p>

<p>
Such MSS., written on palm leaves, if preserved
carefully and almost worshipped, as they seem to
have been in China, might well have survived to the
present day, and they would certainly prove of immense
value to the students of Buddhism, if they
could still be recovered, whether in the original or
even in later copies.
</p>

<p>
It is true, no doubt, that, like all other religions,
Buddhism too had its periods of trial and persecution
in China. We know that during such periods&mdash;as,
<pb n='210'/><anchor id='Pg210'/>
for instance, in 845, under the Emperor Wu-tsung&mdash;monasteries
were destroyed, images broken, and books
burnt. But these persecutions seem never to have
lasted long, and when they were over, monasteries,
temples, and pagodas soon sprang up again, images
were restored, and books collected in greater abundance
than ever. Dr. Edkins tells us that <q>in an
account of the Ko-t'sing monastery in the History of
T'ian-t'ai-shan it is said that a single work was saved
from a fire there several centuries ago, which was
written on the Pei-to (Pe-ta) or palm leaf of India.</q>
He also states that great pagodas were built
on purpose as safe repositories of Sanskrit MSS., one
being erected by the Emperor for the preservation of
the newly arrived Sanskrit books at the request of
Hiouen-thsang, lest they should be injured for want
of care. It was 180 feet high, had five stories with
grains of She-li (relics) in the centre of each, and
contained monuments inscribed with the prefaces
written by the Emperor or Prince Royal to Hiouen-thsang's
translations.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Search for Sanskrit MSS. in Japan.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Being myself convinced of the existence of old Indian
MSS. in China, I lost no opportunity, during
the last five-and-twenty years, of asking any friends
of mine who went to China to look out for these
treasures, but&mdash;with no result!
</p>

<p>
Some years ago, however, Dr. Edkins, who had
taken an active part in the search instituted by Professor
Wilson and Sir J. Bowring, showed me a book
which he had brought from Japan, and which contained
a Chinese vocabulary with Sanskrit equivalents
and a transliteration in Japanese. The Sanskrit
<pb n='211'/><anchor id='Pg211'/>
is written in that peculiar alphabet which we
find in the old MSS. of Nepâl, and which in China
has been further modified, so as to give it an almost
Chinese appearance.
</p>

<p>
That MS. revived my hopes. If such a book was
published in Japan, I concluded that there must have
been a time when such a book was useful there&mdash;that
is to say, when the Buddhists in Japan studied
Sanskrit. Dr. Edkins kindly left the book with me,
and though the Sanskrit portion was full of blunders,
yet it enabled me to become accustomed to that peculiar
alphabet in which the Sanskrit words are written.
</p>

<p>
While I was looking forward to more information
from Japan, good luck would have it that a young
Buddhist priest, Mr. Bunyiu Nanjio, came to me from
Japan, in order to learn Sanskrit and Pâli, and thus
to be able in time to read the sacred writings of the
Buddhists in their original language, and to compare
them with the Chinese and Japanese translations
now current in his country. After a time, another
Buddhist priest, Mr. Kasawara, came to me for the
same purpose, and both are now working very hard
at learning Sanskrit. Japan is supposed to contain
34,388,504 inhabitants, all of whom, with the exception
of about 1 or 200,000 followers of the Shintô religion,<note place='foot'>See Letter
to the <hi rend='italic'>Times</hi>, <q>On the Religions
of Japan,</q> Oct. 20, 1880.</note>
are Buddhists, divided into ten principal sects,
the sect to which Mr. Bunyiu Nanjio belongs being
that of the Shinshiu. One of the first questions
which I asked Mr. Bunyiu Nanjio, when he came to
read Sanskrit with me, was about Sanskrit MSS. in
Japan. I showed him the Chinese-Sanskrit-Japanese
Vocabulary which Dr. Edkins had left with me, and
he soon admitted that Sanskrit texts in the same alphabet
<pb n='212'/><anchor id='Pg212'/>
might be found in Japan, or at all events in
China. He wrote home to his friends, and after
waiting for some time, he brought me in December
last a book which a Japanese scholar, Shuntai Ishikawa,
had sent to me, and which he wished me
to correct, and then to send back to him to Japan.
I did not see at once the importance of the book.
But when I came to read the introductory formula,
Evam mayâ srutam, <q>Thus by me it has been
heard,</q> the typical beginning of the Buddhist Sûtras,
my eyes were opened. Here, then, was what I had
so long been looking forward to&mdash;a Sanskrit text,
carried from India to China, from China to Japan,
written in the peculiar Nepalese alphabet, with a
Chinese translation, and a transliteration in Japanese.
Of course, it is a copy only, not an original
MS.; but copies presuppose originals at some time or
other, and, such as it is, it is a first instalment, which
tells us that we ought not to despair, for where one
of the long-sought-for literary treasures that were
taken from India to China, and afterwards from
China to Japan, has been discovered, others are sure
to come to light.
</p>

<p>
We do not possess yet very authentic information
on the ancient history of Japan, and on the introduction
of Buddhism into that island. M. Léon de
Rosny<note place='foot'><q>Le Bouddhisme dans l'extrème Orient,</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Revue Scientifique</hi>, Décembre, 1879.</note>
and the Marquis D'Hervey de Saint-Denys<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Journal
Asiatique</hi>, 1871, p. 386 <hi rend='italic'>seq.</hi></note>
have given us some information on the subject, and
I hope that Mr. Bunyiu Nanjio will soon give us a
trustworthy account of the ancient history of his
country, drawn from native authorities. What is
<pb n='213'/><anchor id='Pg213'/>
told us about the conversion of Japan to Buddhism
has a somewhat legendary aspect, and I shall only select
a few of the more important facts, as they have
been communicated to me by my Sanskrit pupil.
Buddhism first reached Japan, not directly from
China, but from Corea, which had been converted to
Buddhism in the fourth century <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> In the year
200 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> Corea had been conquered by the Japanese
Empress Zingu, and the intercourse thus established
between the two countries led to the importation of
Buddhist doctrines from Corea to Japan. In the
year 552 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> one of the Corean kings sent a bronze
statue of Buddha and many sacred books to the
Court of Japan, and after various vicissitudes, Buddhism
became the established religion of the island
about 600 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> Japanese students were sent to
China to study Buddhism, and they brought back
with them large numbers of Buddhist books, chiefly
translations from Sanskrit. In the year 640 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>
we hear of a translation of the Sukhavatîvyûhama-hâyâna-sûtra
being read in Japan. This is the title
of the Sanskrit text now sent to me from Japan.
The translation had been made by Kô-sô-gai (in
Chinese, Khang-sang-khai), a native of Tibet, though
living in India, 252 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, and we are told that there
had been eleven other translations of the same text.<note place='foot'>Five of these
translations were introduced into Japan; the others seem
to have been lost in China. The translations are spoken of as <q>the five
in existence and the seven missing.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
Among the teachers of these Japanese students we
find our old friend Hiouen-thsang, whom the Japanese
call Genziô. In the year 653 a Japanese priest,
Dosho by name, studied under Genziô, adopted the
views of the sect founded by him,&mdash;the Hossô sect,&mdash;and
brought back with him to Japan a compilation
<pb n='214'/><anchor id='Pg214'/>
of commentaries on the thirty verses of Vasubandhu,
written by Dharmapâla, and translated by
Genziô. Two other priests, Chitsû and Chitatsu,
likewise became his pupils, and introduced the famous
Abhidharma-kosha-sâstra into Japan, which
had been composed by Vasubandhu, and translated
by Genziô. They seem to have favored the Hînayâna,
or the views of the Small Vehicle (Kushashiu).
</p>

<p>
In the year 736 we hear of a translation of the
Buddhâvata<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>saka-vaipulya-sûtra, by Buddhabhadra
and others<note place='foot'>See <ref target="Pg192">p. 192.</ref></note>
(317-419 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>), being received in Japan,
likewise of a translation of the Saddharma-pu<hi rend='italic'>nd</hi>arîka
by Kumara<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva.<note place='foot'>See <ref target="Pg192">p.
192.</ref></note>
</p>

<p>
And, what is more important still, in the ninth
century we are told that Kukai (died 835), the
founder of the Shingon sect in Japan, was not only a
good Chinese, but a good Sanskrit scholar also. Nay,
one of his disciples, Shinnyo, in order to perfect his
knowledge of Buddhist literature, undertook a journey,
not only to China, but to India, but died before
he reached that country.
</p>

<p>
These short notices, which I owe chiefly to Mr.
Bunyiu Nanjio, make it quite clear that we have
every right to expect Sanskrit MSS., or, at all events,
Sanskrit texts, in Japan, and the specimen which I
have received encourages me to hope that some of
these Sanskrit texts may be older than any which exist
at present in any part of India.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Sukhavatî-vyûha.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The text which was sent to me bears the title of
Sukhâvatî-vyûha-mahâyâna-sûtra.<note place='foot'>The MSS.
vary between Sukhavatî and Sukhâvatî.</note>
<pb n='215'/><anchor id='Pg215'/>
This is a title well known to all students of Buddhist
literature. Burnouf, in his <q>Introduction à
l'Histoire du Buddhisme</q> (pp. 99-102),<note place='foot'>See, also,
<hi rend='italic'>Lotus de la bonne Loi</hi>, p. 267.</note> gave a short
account of this Sûtra, which enables us to see that
the scene of the dialogue was laid at
Râ<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>ag<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>ha, and
that the two speakers were Bhagavat and Ânanda.
</p>

<p>
We saw before, in the historical account of Buddhism
in Japan, that no less than twelve Chinese
translations of a work bearing the same title were
mentioned. The Chinese tell us at least of five translations
which are still in existence.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Journal
of the R. A. S.</hi> 1856, p. 319.</note>
</p>

<p>
Those of the Han and Wu dynasties (25-280
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>), we are told, were too diffuse, and those of the
later periods, the T'ang and Sung dynasties, too literal.
The best is said to be that by Kô-sô-gai, a
priest of Tibetan descent, which was made during the
early Wei dynasty, about 252 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> This may be
the same which was read in Japan in 640 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The same Sûtra exists also in a Tibetan translation,
for there can be little doubt that the Sûtra
quoted by Csoma Körösi (<q>As. Res.</q> vol. xx. p.
408) under the name of Amitâbha-vyûha is the same
work. It occupies, as M. Léon Feer informs me,
fifty-four leaves, places the scene of the dialogue at
Râ<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>ag<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>ha,
on the mountain Gr<hi rend='italic'>i</hi>dhra-kû<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>a, and
introduces Bhagavat and Ânanda as the principal
speakers.
</p>

<p>
There are Sanskrit MSS. of the Sukhavatî-vyûha
in your own Library, in Paris, at Cambridge, and at
Oxford.
</p>

<p>
The following is a list of the MSS. of the Sukhavatî-vyûha,
hitherto known:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='216'/><anchor id='Pg216'/>

<p>
1. MS. of the Royal Asiatic Society, London
(Hodgson Collection), No. 20. Sukhavatîvyûha-mahâyânasûtra,
sixty-five leaves. Dated Samvat 934 = <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>
1814. It begins: Namo da<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>adiganantâparyantalokadhâtupratish<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>itebhya<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>,
etc. Eva<hi rend='italic'>m</hi> mayâ <hi rend='italic'>s</hi>rutam
ekasmi<hi rend='italic'>m</hi> samaye Bhagavân
Râ<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>ag<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>he viharati
sma. It ends: Sukhâvatîvyûha-mahâyânasûtra<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>
samâpta<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>. Sa<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>vat 934,
kârttika<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>udi 4,
sa<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>pûr<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>am
abhût. <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>rîsuvar<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>apa<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>ârimabânagare Maitrîpûrimahâvihâre
<hi rend='italic'>S</hi>rîvâkva<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>radâsa va<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>râ<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>âryasya <hi rend='italic'>G</hi>ayânandasya
<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>a sarvârthasiddhe<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>. (Nepalese alphabet.)
</p>

<p>
2. MS. of the Bibliothèque Nationale, Paris (Collection
Burnouf), No. 85; sixty-four leaves. It begins,
after a preamble of five lines, Eva<hi rend='italic'>m</hi> mayâ
<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>ruta<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>mekasmi samaya Bhagavân
Râ<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>ag<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>he viharati
sma G<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>dhraku<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>e parvvate mahatâ
Bhikshusanghena sârddham. Dvâtri<hi rend='italic'>ms</hi>ratâ
Bhikshusahasrai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>. It ends:
Bhagavato mitâbhasya gu<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>aparikîrttana<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>
Bodhisattvâmavaivartyabhûmiprave<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>a<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>.
Amitâbhavyuhaparivartta<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>.
Sukhâvatîvyûha<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>
sampur<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>. Iti <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>rî
Amitâbhasya Sukhâvatîvyuha nâma mahâyânastûra<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>
samâpta<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>.<note place='foot'>I owe this information
to the kindness of M. Léon Feer at Paris.</note> (Devanâgarî alphabet.)
</p>

<p>
3. MS. of the Société Asiatique at Paris (Collection
Hodgson), No. 17; eighty-two leaves. (Nepalese
alphabet.)<note place='foot'>See <hi rend='italic'>Journal Asiatique</hi>,
3d series, vol. iii. p. 316; vol. iv. p. 296-298.</note>
</p>

<p>
4. MS. of the University Library at Cambridge,
No. 1368; thirty-five leaves. It begins with some
lines of prose and verse in praise of Amitâbha and
Sukhavatî, and then proceeds: Eva<hi rend='italic'>m</hi> mayâ
<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>rutam ekasmi<hi rend='italic'>m</hi> samaye Bhagavân
Râ<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>ag<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>he nagare viharati
sma, G<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>dhrakû<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>aparvate mahatâ
Bhikshusanghena sârddha, etc. It ends: iti srîmad amitâbhasya tathâgatasya
<pb n='217'/><anchor id='Pg217'/>
Sukhâvatîvyûha-mahâyânasûtra<hi rend='italic'>m</hi> samâptam.
(Nepalese alphabet, modern.)
</p>

<p>
5. MS. given by Mr. Hodgson to the Bodleian Library
Oxford (Hodgson 3). It begins with: Om
namo ratnatrayâya. Om nama<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>
sarvabuddhabodhisattvebhya<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>,
etc. Then Eva<hi rend='italic'>m</hi> mayâ <hi rend='italic'>s</hi>rutam, etc. It
ends with sukhavâtîvyûhamahâyânasûtra<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>
samâpta<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>.
(Nepalese alphabet, modern.)
</p>

<p>
But when I came to compare these Sanskrit MSS.
with the text sent to me from Japan, though the
title was the same, I soon perceived that their contents
were different. While the text, as given in the
ordinary Devanâgari or Nepalese MSS., fills about
fifty to sixty leaves, the text of the Sûtra that reached
me from Japan would hardly occupy more than eight
or ten leaves.
</p>

<p>
I soon convinced myself that this MS. was not a
text abbreviated in Japan, for this shorter text, sent to
me from Japan, correspond in every respect with the
Chinese Sûtra translated by Mr. Beal in his <q>Catena,</q>
pp. 378-383, and published in your Journal,
1866, p. 136. No doubt the Chinese translation, on
which Mr. Beal's translation is based, is not only
free, but displays the misapprehensions peculiar to
many Chinese renderings of Sanskrit texts, due to a
deficient knowledge either of Sanskrit or of Chinese
on the part of the translators, perhaps also to the
different genius of those two languages.
</p>

<p>
Yet, such as it is, there can be no doubt that it
was meant to be a translation of the text now in my
possession. Mr. Beal tells us that the translation he
followed is that by Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva, the contemporary of
Fa-hian (400 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>), and that this translator omitted
repetitions and superfluities in the text.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>J.
R. A. S.</hi> 1866, p. 136.</note> Mr. Edkins
<pb n='218'/><anchor id='Pg218'/>
knows a translation, <hi rend='italic'>s. t.</hi> Wou-liang-sheu-king, made
under the Han dynasty.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>J. R. A. S.</hi> 1866, p.
136.</note> What is important is that
in the Chinese translation of the shorter text the scene
is laid, as in the Japanese Sanskrit text, at <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>râvastî,
and the principal speakers are Bhagavat and <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra.
</p>

<p>
There is also a Tibetan translation of the short
text, described by Csoma Körösi (<q>As. Res.</q> vol. xx.
p. 439). Here, though the name of the scene is not
mentioned, the speakers are Bhagavat and <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra.
The whole work occupies seven leaves only, and the
names of the sixteen principal disciples agree with
the Japanese text. The translators were Pra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>nâvarman,
Sûrendra, and the Tibetan Lotsava Ya-shes-sde.
</p>

<p>
M. Feer informs me that there is at the National
Library a Chinese text called O-mi-to-king, <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
Amitâbha-sûtra.<note place='foot'>Beal, <hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>, p. 23.
<hi rend='italic'>J. R. A. S.</hi> 1856, p. 319. Beal, <hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>,
p. 77, mentions also an
Amitâbha-sûtra-upade<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>a-<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âstra, by
Vasubandhu, translated by Bodhiru<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>i
(Wou-liang-sheu-king-yeou-po-ti-she). There is an Amitâbha-sûtra, translated by
Chi-hien of the Wu period&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> 222-280
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>&mdash;mentioned in Mr. Beal's <hi rend='italic'>Catalogue
of the Buddhist Tripitaka</hi>, p. 6. The next Sûtra, which he calls the Sûtra of
measureless years, is no doubt the Amitâyus-sûtra, Amitâyus being another name for
Amitâbha (Fu-shwo-wou-liang-sheu-king, p. 6). See, also,
<hi rend='italic'>Catalogue</hi>, pp. 99, 102. Dr. Edkins also, in his
<hi rend='italic'>Notices of Buddhism in China</hi>, speaks of a translation
of <q>the Sûtra of boundless age,</q> by Fa-t'ian-pun, a native of Magadha,
who was assisted in his translation by a native of China familiar
with Sanskrit, about 1000 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi></note>
The scene is at <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>râvastî; the
speakers are Bhagavat <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra.
</p>

<p>
Another text at the National Library is called
Ta-o-mi-to-king, <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> Mahâ Amitâbha-sûtra, and here
the scene is at Râ<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>ag<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>ha.
</p>

<p>
There is, besides, a third work, called Kwan-wou-liang-sheu-king
by Kiang-ling-ye-she, <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> Kâlaya<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>as,
a foreigner of the West, who lived in China about
424 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='219'/><anchor id='Pg219'/>

<p>
We have, therefore, historical evidence of the existence
of three Sûtras, describing Sukhavatî, or the
Paradise of Amitâbha. We know two of them in
Sanskrit, Chinese, and Tibetan&mdash;one long, the
other short. The third is known as yet in Chinese
only.
</p>

<p>
Of the two Sanskrit texts, the one from Nepal,
the other from Japan, the latter seems certainly the
earlier. But even the fuller text must have existed
at a very early time, because it was translated by
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>i-lau-kia-<hi rend='italic'>kh</hi>ai, under the Eastern Han
dynasty (25-220 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>)&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
at all events before 220 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The shorter text is first authenticated through
the translation of Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva, about 400
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>; but
if the views generally entertained as to the relative
position of the longer and shorter Sûtras be correct,
we may safely claim for our short Sûtra a date within
the second century of our era.
</p>

<p>
What Japan has sent us is, therefore, a Sanskrit
text, of which we had no trace before, which must
have left India at least before 400 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, but probably
before 200 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, and which gives us the original of
that description of Amitâbha's Paradise, which formerly
we knew in a Chinese translation only, which
was neither complete nor correct.
</p>

<p>
The book sent to me was first published in Japan
in 1773, by Ziômiô, a Buddhist priest. The Sanskrit
text is intelligible, but full of inaccuracies, showing
clearly that the editor did not understand Sanskrit,
but simply copied what he saw before him. The
same words occurring in the same line are written
differently, and the Japanese transliteration simply
repeats the blunders of the Sanskrit transcript.
</p>

<p>
There are two other editions of the same text,
<pb n='220'/><anchor id='Pg220'/>
published in 1794 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> by another Japanese priest,
named Hôgŏ. These are in the possession of Mr.
Bunyiu Nanjio, and offered some help in correcting
the text. One of them contains the text and three
Chinese translations, one being merely a literal rendering,
while the other two have more of a literary
character and are ascribed to Kumâra<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>îva (400
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>), and Hiouen-thsang (648 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>).
</p>

<p>
Lastly, there is another book by the same Hôgŏ,
in four volumes, in which an attempt is made to give
a grammatical analysis of the text. This, however,
as Mr. Bunyiu Nanjio informs me, is very imperfect.
</p>

<p>
I have to-day brought with me the Japanese Sanskrit
text, critically restored, and a literal translation
into English, to which I have added a few notes.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Translation.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Adoration to the Omniscient.</hi>
</p>

<p>
This is what I have heard. At one time the
Blessed (Bhagavat, <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> Buddha) dwelt at
<hi rend='italic'>S</hi>râvastî,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>S</hi>râvastî,
capital of the Northern Ko<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>alas, residence of King
Prasena<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>it.
It was in ruins when visited by Fa-hian (init. V. Sæc.); not far
from the modern Fizabad. <hi rend='italic'>Cf.</hi> Burnouf,
<hi rend='italic'>Introduction</hi>, p. 22.</note>
in the <hi rend='italic'>G</hi>eta-grove, in the garden of
Anâthapi<hi rend='italic'>nd</hi>aka,
together with<note place='foot'>Sârdha, with, the Pâli saddhim. Did not the
frequent mention of 1,200 and a half (<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> 1,250),
1,300 and a half (<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> 1,350), persons accompanying
Buddha arise from a misunderstanding of sârdha, meaning
originally <q>with a half</q>?</note> a large company of Bhikshus (mendicant
friars), viz. with thirteen hundred Bhikshus, all
of them acquainted with the five kinds of
knowledge,<note place='foot'>Abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>ânâbhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âtai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>.
The Japanese text reads
abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âtâbhâ<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âtai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âtâbhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âtai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>.
If this were known to be the correct reading,
we should translate it by <q>known by known people,</q> <hi rend='italic'>notus a viris
notis</hi>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> well-known, famous.
Abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âta in the sense of known, famous,
occurs in Lalita-Vistara, p. 25, and the Chinese translators adopted
that meaning here. Again, if we preferred the reading
abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>ânâbhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âtai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>,
this, too, would admit of an intelligible rendering&mdash;viz. known or
distinguished by the marks or characteristics, the good qualities, that
ought to belong to a Bhikshu. But the technical meaning is <q>possessed
of a knowledge of the five abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âs.</q> It would be better in
that case to write
abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âtâbhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>ânai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>,
but no MSS. seem to support that reading.
The five abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âs or abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>ânas which an
Arhat ought to possess are the
divine sight, the divine hearing, the knowledge of the thoughts of others,
the remembrance of former existences, and magic power. See Burnouf,
<hi rend='italic'>Lotus</hi>, Appendice, No. xiv. The larger text of the Sukhavatîvyûha
has abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>ânâbhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>aih, and afterwards
abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âtâbhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>ai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>.
The position of the participle as the uttara-pada in such compounds as
abhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>ânâbhi<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âtai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>
is common in Buddhist Sanskrit. Mr. Bendall has called my attention to the Pâli
abhi<hi rend='italic'>ññ</hi>âta-abhi<hi rend='italic'>ññ</hi>âta
(Vinaya-pi<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>aka, ed. Oldenberg, vol.
i. p. 43), which favors the Chinese acceptation of the term.</note>
<pb n='221'/><anchor id='Pg221'/>
elders, great disciples,<note place='foot'>Mahâsrâvaka, the great disciples; sometimes
the eighty principal disciples.</note> and
Arhats,<note place='foot'>Arhadbhi<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>. I have left the correct
Sanskrit form, because the Japanese text gives the termination
adbhi<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>. Hôgŏ's text has the more usual
form arhantai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>. The change of the old
classical arhat into the Pâli arahan,
and then back into Sanskrit arhanta, arahanta, and at last arihanta, with
the meaning of <q>destroyer of the enemies</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
the passions&mdash;shows very clearly the different stages through which Sanskrit words
passed in the different phases of Buddhist literature. In Tibet, in Mongolia, and in
China, Arhat is translated by <q>destroyer of the enemy.</q> See Burnouf,
<hi rend='italic'>Lotus</hi>, p. 287; <hi rend='italic'>Introduction</hi>, p. 295. Arhat
is the title of the Bhikshu on reaching the fourth degree of perfection.
<hi rend='italic'>Cf.</hi> Sûtra of the 42 Sections, cap.
2. Clemens of Alexandria (d. 220) speaks of the Σεμνοι who worshipped
a pyramid erected over the relics of a god. Is this a translation of Arhat,
as Lassen (<q>De nom. Ind. philosoph.</q> in <hi rend='italic'>Rhein. Museum</hi>,
vol. i. p. 187) and Burnouf (<hi rend='italic'>Introduction</hi>, p. 295) supposed,
or a transliteration of Samana? Clemens also speaks of Σεμναί
(<hi rend='italic'>Stromat.</hi> p. 539, Potter).</note> such as
<hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra,
the elder, Mahâmaudgalyâyana, Mahâkâ<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>yapa,
Mahâkapphi<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a, Mahâkâtyâyana, Mahâkaush<hi rend='italic'>th</hi>ila,
Revata, <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>uddhipanthaka, Nanda, Ânanda, Râhula,
Gavâmpati, Bharadvâ<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>a, Kâlodayin, Vakkula, and
Aniruddha. He dwelt together with these and
many other great disciples, and together with many
noble-minded Bodhisattvas, such as Ma<hi rend='italic'>ñg</hi>usrî, the
prince, the Bodhisattva A<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>ita, the Bodhisattva Gandhahastin,
the Bodhisattva Nityodyukta, the Bodhisattva
<pb n='222'/><anchor id='Pg222'/>
Anikshiptadhura. He dwelt together with
them and many other noble-minded Bodhisattvas,
and with <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>akra, the Indra or King<note place='foot'>Indra,
the old Vedic god, has come to mean simply lord, and in the
<hi rend='italic'>K</hi>anda Paritta (<hi rend='italic'>Journal Asiatique</hi>, 1871,
p. 220) we actually find Asurinda,
the Indra or Lord of the Asuras.</note> of the Devas,
and with Brahman Sahâmpati. With these and
many other hundred thousands of Nayutas<note place='foot'>The numbers in Buddhist
literature, if they once exceed a Ko<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>i or
Ko<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>î&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> ten millions&mdash;become
very vague, nor is their value always the same. Ayuta, <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
a hundred Ko<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>is; Niyuta, <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> a hundred
Ayutas; and Nayuta, <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> 1 with 22 zeros, are often confounded;
nor does it matter much so far as any definite idea is concerned which such numerals
convey to our mind.</note> of sons
of the gods, Bhagavat dwelt at <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>râvastî.
</p>

<pb n='223'/><anchor id='Pg223'/>

<p>
Then Bhagavat addressed the honored <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra
and said: O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, after you have passed from
here over a hundred thousand Ko<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>is of Buddha-countries
there is in the Western part of a Buddha-country,
a world called Sukhavatî (the happy country).
And there a Tathâgata, called Amitâyus, an Arhat,
fully enlightened, dwells now, and remains, and supports
himself, and teaches the Law.<note place='foot'>Tish<hi rend='italic'>th</hi>ati
dh<hi rend='italic'>riy</hi>ate yâpayati dharma<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>
<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>a desayati. This is evidently
an idiomatic phrase, for it occurs again and again in the Nepalese text of
the Sukhavatîvyûha (MS. 26 <hi rend='italic'>b</hi>, l. 1. 2; 55
<hi rend='italic'>a</hi>, l. 2, etc.). It seems to mean,
he stands there, holds himself, supports himself, and teaches the law.
Burnouf translates the same phrase by, <q>ils se trouvent, vivent existent</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>Lotus</hi>, p. 354). On yâpeti in Pâli, see Fausböll,
Dasaratha-jâtaka, pp. 26, 28; and yâpana in Sanskrit.</note>
</p>

<p>
Now what do you think, <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>riputra, for what reason
is that world called Sukhavatî (the happy)? In
that world Sukhavatî, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>riputra, there is neither
bodily nor mental pain for living beings. The sources
of happiness are innumerable there. For that reason
is that world called Sukhavatî (the happy).
</p>

<p>
And again, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, that world Sukhavatî is
adorned with seven terraces, with seven rows of
palm-trees, and with strings of
bells.<note place='foot'>Kiṅki<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>î<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>âla. The
texts read kaṅka<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>î<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>alais
<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>a and kaṅka<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>îgalais
<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>a, and again later kaṅka<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>îgalunâm (also
lû) and kaṅka<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>î<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>alânâm. Mr.
Beal translates from Chinese <q>seven rows of exquisite curtains,</q> and
again <q>gemmous curtains.</q> First of all, it seems clear that we must read
<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>âla, net, web, instead of <hi rend='italic'>g</hi>ala. Secondly,
kaṅka<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a, bracelet, gives no sense, for what could be the meaning
of nets or string of bracelets? I prefer to read
kiṅki<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>î<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>âla, nets or strings
or rows of bells. Such rows of bells served for ornamenting a garden, and it may
be said of them that, if moved by the wind, they give forth certain sounds. In
the commentary on Dhammapada 30, p. 191, we meet with
kiṅkinika<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>âla, from which likewise
the music proceeds; see Childers, <hi rend='italic'>s. v. g</hi>âla. In the MSS. of the
Nepalese Sukhavatîvyûha (<hi rend='italic'>R. A. S.</hi>), p. 39
<hi rend='italic'>a</hi>, l. 4, I likewise find
svarnaratnakiṅki<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>î<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>âlâni, which
settles the matter, and shows how little
confidence we can place in the Japanese texts.</note> It is inclosed
on every side,<note place='foot'>Anuparikshipta, inclosed; see parikkhepo
in Childers' Dict.</note> beautiful, brilliant with the four
<pb n='224'/><anchor id='Pg224'/>
gems, viz. gold, silver, beryl, and crystal. With
such arrays of excellences peculiar to a Buddha-country
is that Buddha-country adorned.
</p>

<p>
And again, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, in that world Sukhavatî
there are lotus lakes, adorned with the seven gems,
viz. gold, silver, beryl, crystal, red pearls, diamonds,
<pb n='225'/><anchor id='Pg225'/>
and corals as the seventh. They are full of water
which possesses the eight good qualities,<note place='foot'>The eight
good qualities of water are limpidity and purity, refreshing
coolness, sweetness, softness, fertilizing qualities, calmness, power of preventing
famine, productiveness. See Beal, <hi rend='italic'>Catena</hi>, p. 379.</note>
their waters rise as high as the fords and bathing-places, so that
even crows<note place='foot'>Kâkâpeya. One text reads Kâkapeya, the other Kâkâpeya. It is
difficult to choose. The more usual word is kâkapeya, which is explained
by Pâ<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>ini, ii. 1, 33. It is uncertain, however, whether kâkapeya
is meant as a laudatory or as a depreciatory term. Boehtlingk takes it in the latter
sense, and translates nadî kâkapeyâ, by a shallow river that could be
drunk up by a crow. Târânâtha takes it in the former sense, and translates
nadî kâkapeyâ, as a river so full of water that a crow can drink it
without bending its neck (kâkair anatakandharai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi> pîyate;
pûr<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>odakatvena pra<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>asye
kâkai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi> peye nadyâdau). In our passage kâkapeya must be
a term of praise, and we therefore could only render it by <q>ponds so full
of water that crows could drink from them.</q> But why should so well
known a word as kâkapeya have been spelt kâkâpeya, unless it was done
intentionally? And if intentionally, what was it intended for? We must
remember that Pâ<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>ini, ii. 1, 42 schol., teaches us how to form
the word tîrthakâka, a crow at a tîrtha, which means a person in a wrong place.
It would seem, therefore, that crows were considered out of place at a tîrtha
or bathing-place, either because they were birds of ill omen, or because
they defiled the water. From that point of view, kâkâpeya would mean
a pond not visited by crows, free from crows. Professor Pischel has
called my attention to Mahâparinibbâna Sutta (<hi rend='italic'>J. R. A. S.</hi> 1875,
p. 67, p. 21), where kâkapeyâ clearly refers to a full river. Samatiṭṭḥika, if this is
the right reading, occurs in the same place as an epithet of a river, by the
side of kâkapeya, and I think it most likely that it means rising to a level
with the tîrthas, the fords or bathing-places. Mr. Rhys Davids informs
me that the commentary explains the two words by samatittikâ ti samaharitâ,
kâkapeyyâ ti yatthatattha<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>i tîre <hi rend='italic'>th</hi>itena
kâkena sakkâ patum ti.</note> may drink there; they are full of golden
sand, and of vast extent. And in these lotus lakes
there are all around on the four sides four stairs,
beautiful and brilliant with the four gems, viz. gold,
silver, beryl, crystal. And on every side of these lotus
lakes gem trees are growing, beautiful and brilliant
with the seven gems, viz. gold, silver, beryl,
crystal, red pearls, diamonds, and corals as the
seventh. And in those lotus lakes lotus flowers are
growing, blue, blue-colored, of blue splendor, blue to
<pb n='226'/><anchor id='Pg226'/>
behold; yellow, yellow-colored, of yellow splendor,
yellow to behold; red, red-colored, of red splendor,
red to behold; white, white-colored, of white splendor,
white to behold; beautiful, beautifully-colored,
of beautiful splendor, beautiful to behold, and in circumference
as large as the wheel of a chariot.
</p>

<p>
And again, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, in that Buddha-country
there are heavenly musical instruments always played
on and the earth is lovely and of golden color. And
in that Buddha-country a flower-rain of heavenly
Mândârava blossoms pours down three times every
day, and three times every night. And the beings
who are born there worship before their morning
meal<note place='foot'>Purobhaktena. The text is difficult to read, but it can hardly be
doubtful that purobhaktena corresponds to Pâli purebhatta<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>
(<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> before the morning meal), opposed to
pa<hi rend='italic'>kkh</hi>âbhatta<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>, after the noonday meal
(<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> in the afternoon). See Childers,
<hi rend='italic'>s. v.</hi> Pûrvabhaktikâ would be the first repast, as Professor Cowell
informs me.</note> a hundred thousand Ko<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>is of Buddhas by going
to other worlds; and having showered a hundred
thousand of Ko<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>is of flowers upon each Tathâgata,
they return to their own world in time for the afternoon
rest.<note place='foot'>Divâ vihârâya, for the noonday rest, the
<hi rend='italic'>siesta</hi>. See Childers, <hi rend='italic'>s. v.</hi>
vihâra.</note> With such arrays of excellences peculiar
to a Buddha-country is that Buddha-country adorned.
</p>

<p>
And again, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, there are in that Buddha-country swans,
curlews,<note place='foot'>Krau<hi rend='italic'>ñk</hi>â<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>.
Snipe, curlew. Is it meant for Kuravîka, or Karavîka, a
fine-voiced bird (according to Kern, the Sk. karâyikâ), or for Kalaviṅka-Pâli
Kalavîka? See Childers, <hi rend='italic'>s. v.</hi> opapâtiko; Burnouf,
<hi rend='italic'>Lotus</hi>, p. 566. I see, however, the same birds mentioned together
elsewhere, as
ha<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>sakrau<hi rend='italic'>ñk</hi>amayûra<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>uka<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>âlikakokila,
etc. On mayûra see Mahâv. Introd. p.
xxxix.; Rv. I. 191, 14.</note> and peacocks. Three times
every night, and three times every day, they come
together and perform a concert, each uttering his own
note. And from them thus uttering proceeds a sound
<pb n='227'/><anchor id='Pg227'/>
proclaiming the five virtues, the five powers, and the seven steps leading
towards the highest knowledge.<note place='foot'><p>Indriyabalabodhyaṅgasabda. These are
technical terms, but their meaning is not quite clear. Spence Hardy, in his
<hi rend='italic'>Manual</hi>, p. 498, enumerates the five indrayas, viz. (1)
sardhâwa, purity (probably <hi rend='italic'>s</hi>raddhâ, faith), (2) wiraya,
persevering exertion (vîrya), (3) sati or smirti, the ascertainment
of truth (sm<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>ti), (4) samâdhi, tranquillity, (5) pragnâwa, wisdom
(pra<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>â).
</p>
<p>
The five balayas (bala), he adds, are the same as the five indrayas.
</p>
<p>
The seven bowdyânga (bodhyaṅga) are, according to him: (1) sihi or
smirti, the ascertainment of the truth by mental application, (2) dharmmawicha,
the investigation of causes. (3) wîraya, persevering exertion, (4)
prîti, joy, (5) passadhi, or prasrabdhi, tranquillity, (6) samâdhi, tranquillity
in a higher degree, including freedom from all that disturbs either
body or mind, (7) upekshâ, equanimity.
</p>
<p>
It will be seen from this that some of these qualities or excellences occur
both as indriyas and bodhyaṅgas, while balas are throughout identical
with indriyas.
</p>
<p>
Burnouf, however, in his <hi rend='italic'>Lotus</hi>, gives a list of five balas (from
the <hi rend='italic'>Vocabulaire Pentaglotte</hi>) which correspond with the five
indriyas of Spence Hardy: viz. <hi rend='italic'>s</hi>raddhâ-bala, power of faith,
vîrya-bala, power of vigor, sm<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>ti-bala, power of memory,
samâdhi-bala, power of meditation, pra<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>â-bala,
power of knowledge. They precede the seven bodhyaṅgas both in the
<hi rend='italic'>Lotus</hi>, the <hi rend='italic'>Vocabulaire Pentaglotte</hi>, and
the Lalita-Vistara.
</p>
<p>
To these seven bodhyaṅgas Burnouf has assigned a special treatise (Appendix
xii. p. 796). They occur both in Sanskrit and Pâli.</p></note>
When the men there hear that sound, remembrance
of Buddha, remembrance of the Law, remembrance
of the Assembly, rises in their mind.
</p>

<p>
Now, do you think, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, that these are
beings who have entered into the nature of animals
(birds, etc.)? This is not to be thought of. The
very name of hells is unknown in that Buddha-country,
and likewise that of (descent into) animal natures
and of the realm of Yama (the four apâyas).<note place='foot'>Niraya, the hells, also
called Naraka. Yamaloka, the realm of Yama, the
judge of the dead, is explained as the four Apâyas&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>
Naraka, hell, Tiryagyoni, birth as animals, Pretaloka, realm of the dead, Asuraloka,
realm of evil spirits. The three terms which are here used together
occur likewise in a passage translated by Burnouf, <hi rend='italic'>Introduction</hi>,
p. 544.</note>
No, these tribes of birds have been made on purpose
<pb n='228'/><anchor id='Pg228'/>
by the Tathâgata Amitâyus, and they utter the sound
of the Law. With such arrays of excellences, etc.
</p>

<p>
And again, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, when those rows of palm-trees
and strings of bells in that Buddha-country are
moved by the wind, a sweet and enrapturing sound
proceeds from them. Yes, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, as from a
heavenly musical instrument consisting of a hundred
thousand Ko<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>is of sounds, when played by Âryas, a
sweet and enrapturing sound proceeds, a sweet and
enrapturing sound proceeds from those rows of palm-trees
and strings of bells moved by the wind. And
when the men hear that sound, reflection on Buddha
arises in their body, reflection on the Law, reflection
on the Assembly. With such arrays of excellences,
etc.
</p>

<p>
Now what do you think, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, for what
reason is that Tathâgata called Amitâyus? The
length of life (âyus), O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, of that Tathâgata
and of those men there is immeasurable (amita).
Therefore is that Tathâgata called Amitâyus. And
ten Kalpas have passed, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, since that Tathâgata
awoke to perfect knowledge.
</p>

<p>
And what do you think, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, for what
reason is that Tathâgata called Amitâbhâs? The
splendor (âbhâs), O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, of that Tathâgata is
unimpeded over all Buddha-countries. Therefore is
that Tathâgata called Amitâbhâs.
</p>

<p>
And there is, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, an innumerable assembly
of disciples with that Tathâgata, purified and
venerable persons, whose number it is not easy to
count. With such arrays of excellences, etc.
</p>

<p>
And again, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, of those beings also who
are born in the Buddha-country of the Tathâgata
Amitâyus as purified Bodhisattvas, never to return
<pb n='229'/><anchor id='Pg229'/>
again and bound by one birth only, of those Bodhisattvas
also, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, the number is not easy to
count, except they are reckoned as infinite in number.<note place='foot'>Iti
sankhyâ<hi rend='italic'>m</hi> ga<hi rend='italic'>kkh</hi>anti, they are called;
<hi rend='italic'>cf.</hi> Childers, <hi rend='italic'>s. v.</hi> sankhyâ.
Asankhyeya, even more than aprameya, is the recognized term for infinity.
Burnouf, <hi rend='italic'>Lotus</hi>, p. 852.</note>
</p>

<p>
Then again all beings, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, ought to make
fervent prayer for that Buddha-country. And why?
Because they come together there with such excellent
men. Beings are not born in that Buddha-country of
the Tathâgata Amitâyus as a reward and result of
good works performed in this present life.<note place='foot'>Avaramâtraka. This is the
Pâli oramattako, <q>belonging merely to the present life,</q> and the intention
of the writer seems to be to inculcate the doctrine of the
Mahâyâna, that salvation can be obtained by mere repetitions
of the name of Amitâbha, in direct opposition to the original doctrine
of Buddha, that as a man soweth, so he reapeth. Buddha would
have taught that the ku<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>alamûla, the root or the stock of good
works performed in this world (avaramâtraka), will bear fruit in the next, while
here <q>vain repetitions</q> seems all that is enjoined. The Chinese translators
take a different view of this passage, and I am not myself quite certain that
I have understood it rightly. But from the end of this section, where we
read kulaputre<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a vâ kuladuhitrâ vâ tatra buddhakshetre
<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>ittaprâ<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>idhâna<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>
kartavyam, it seems clear that the locative (buddhakshetre) forms the object
of the pra<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>idhâna, the fervent prayer or longing. The Satpurushas
already in the Buddhakshetra would be the innumerable men (manushyâs)
and Boddhisattvas mentioned before.</note> No, whatever
son or daughter of a family shall hear the name
of the blessed Amitâyus, the Tathâgata, and having
heard it, shall keep it in mind, and with thoughts
undisturbed shall keep it in mind for one, two, three,
four, five, six, or seven nights, that son or daughter
of a family, when he or she comes to die, then that
Amitâyus, the Tathâgata, surrounded by an assembly
of disciples and followed by a host of Bodhisattvas,
will stand before them at their hour of death, and
they will depart this life with tranquil minds. After
their death they will be born in the world Sukhavatî,
<pb n='230'/><anchor id='Pg230'/>
in the Buddha-country of the same Amitâyus, the
Tathâgata. Therefore, then, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, having
perceived this cause and effect,<note place='foot'>Arthavasa, lit. the
power of the thing; <hi rend='italic'>cf.</hi> Dhammapada, p. 388,
<hi rend='italic'>v.</hi> 289.</note> I with reverence say
thus, Every son and every daughter of a family ought
to make with their whole mind fervent prayer for that
Buddha-country.
</p>

<p>
And now, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, as I here at present glorify
that world, thus in the East, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, other
blessed Buddhas, led by the Tathâgata Akshobhya,
the Tathâgata Merudhva<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>a, the Tathâgata Mahâmeru,
the Tathâgata Meruprabhâsa, and the Tathâgata
Ma<hi rend='italic'>ñg</hi>udhva<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>a, equal in number to the sand of
the river Gangâ, comprehend their own Buddha-countries
in their speech, and then reveal them.<note place='foot'>I am not quite certain as to the
meaning of this passage, but if we enter into the bold metaphor of the text, viz., that
the Buddhas cover the Buddha-countries with the organ of their tongue and then unroll it,
what is intended can hardly be anything but that they first try to find
words for the excellences of those countries, and then reveal or proclaim
them. Burnouf, however (<hi rend='italic'>Lotus</hi>, p. 417), takes the expression in a
literal sense, though he is shocked by its grotesqueness. On these Buddhas and
their countries, see Burnouf, <hi rend='italic'>Lotus</hi>, p. 113.</note> Accept
this repetition of the Law, called the <q>Favor of all
Buddhas,</q> which magnifies their inconceivable excellences.
</p>

<p>
Thus also in the South, do other blessed Buddhas,
led by the Tathâgata <hi rend='italic'>K</hi>andrasûryapradîpa, the Tathâgata
Yasa<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>prabha, the Tathâgata Mahâr<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>iskandha,
the Tathâgata Merupradîpa, the Tathâgata Anantavîrya,
equal in number to the sand of the river Gangâ,
comprehend their own Buddha-countries in their
speech, and then reveal them. Accept, etc.
</p>

<p>
Thus also in the West do other blessed Buddhas,
led by the Tathâgata Amitâyus, the Tathâgata Amitaskandha,
<pb n='231'/><anchor id='Pg231'/>
the Tathâgata Amitadhva<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>a, the Tathâgata
Mahâprabha, the Tathâgata Mahâratnaketu, the Tathagata
<hi rend='italic'>S</hi>uddhara<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>miprabha, equal in number to the
sand of the river Gangâ, comprehend, etc.
</p>

<p>
Thus also in the North do other blessed Buddhas,
led by the Tathâgata Mahâr<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>iskandha, the Tathâgata
Vai<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>vânaranirghosha, the Tathâgata Dundubhisvaranirghosha,
the Tathâgata Dushpradharsha, the Tathâgata
Âdityasambhava, the Tathâgata <hi rend='italic'>G</hi>aleniprabha
(<hi rend='italic'>G</hi>valanaprabha?), the Tathâgata Prabhâkara, equal
in number to the sand, etc.
</p>

<p>
Thus also in the Nadir do other blessed Buddhas,
led by the Tathâgata Si<hi rend='italic'>m</hi>ha, the Tathâgata
Ya<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>as, the
Tathâgata Ya<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>a<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>prabhâva, the Tathâgata
Dharma, the Tathâgata Dharmadhara, the Tathâgata Dharmadhva<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>a,
equal in number to the sand, etc.
</p>

<p>
Thus also in the Zenith do other blessed Buddhas,
led by the Tathâgata Brahmaghosha, the Tathâgata
Nakshatrarâ<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>a, the Tathâgata
Indraketudhva<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>arâ<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>a,
the Tathâgata Gandhottama, the Tathâgata Gandhaprabhâsa,
the Tathâgata Mahâr<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>iskandha, the
Tathâgata Ratnakusumasampushpitagâtra, the Tathâgata
Sâlendrarâ<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>a, the Tathâgata Ratnotpalasri,
the Tathâgata Sarvâdarsa, the Tathâgata Sumerukalpa,
equal in number to the sand, etc.<note place='foot'>It should
be remarked that the Tathâgatas here assigned to the ten
quarters differ entirely from those assigned to them in the Lalita-vistara,
book xx. Not even Amitâbha is mentioned there.</note>
</p>

<p>
Now what do you think, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, for what
reason is that repetition of the Law called the Favor
of all Buddhas? Every son or daughter of a family
who shall hear the name of that repetition of the Law
and retain in their memory the names of those blessed
Buddhas, will all be favored by the Buddhas, and
<pb n='232'/><anchor id='Pg232'/>
will never return again, being once in possession of
the transcendent true knowledge. Therefore, then,
O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, believe,<note place='foot'>Pratîyatha. The texts
give again and again pattîyatha, evidently the
Pâli form, instead of pratîyata. I have left tha, the Pâli termination of
the 2 p. pl. in the imperative, instead of ta, because that form was clearly
intended, while pa for pra may be an accident. Yet I have little doubt
that patîyatha was in the original text. That it is meant for the imperative,
we see from <hi rend='italic'>s</hi>raddadhâdhvam, etc., farther on. Other traces of the
influence of Pâli or Prakrit on the Sanskrit of our Sûtra appear in
arhantai<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>, the various reading for
arhadbhi<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>, which I preferred; sambahula for bahula;
dh<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>yate yâpayati; purobhaktena; anyatra; saṅkhyâm
ga<hi rend='italic'>kkh</hi>anti; avaramâtraka; ve<hi rend='italic'>th</hi>ana instead
of vesh<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>ana, in nirve<hi rend='italic'>th</hi>ana; dharmaparyâya
(<hi rend='italic'>Corp. Inscript.</hi> plate <hi rend='smallcaps'>xv</hi>.),
etc.</note> accept, and long for me and
those blessed Buddhas!
</p>

<p>
Whatever sons or daughters of a family shall make
mental prayer for the Buddha-country of that blessed
Amitâyus, the Tathâgata, or are making it now or
have made it formerly, all these will never return
again, being once in possession of the transcendent
true knowledge. They will be born in that Buddha-country,
have been born, or are being born now.
Therefore, then, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, mental prayer is to be
made for that Buddha-country by faithful sons and
daughters of a family.
</p>

<p>
And as I at present magnify here the inconceivable
excellences of those blessed Buddhas, thus, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra,
do those blessed Buddhas magnify my own
inconceivable excellences.
</p>

<p>
A very difficult work has been done by <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âkyamuni,
the sovereign of the <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âkyas. Having obtained the
transcendent true knowledge in this world Saha, he
taught the Law which all the world is reluctant to
accept, during this corruption of the present Kalpa,
during this corruption of mankind, during this corruption
of belief, during this corruption of life, during
this corruption of passions.
</p>

<pb n='233'/><anchor id='Pg233'/>

<p>
This is even for me, O <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, an extremely
difficult work that, having obtained the transcendent
true knowledge in this world Saha, I taught the Law
which all the world is reluctant to accept, during this
corruption of mankind, of belief, of passion, of life,
and of this present Kalpa.
</p>

<p>
Thus spoke Bhagavat joyful in his mind. And the
honorable <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âriputra, and the Bhikshus and Bodhisattvas,
and the whole world with the gods, men, evil
spirits, and genii, applauded the speech of Bhagavat.<note place='foot'>The
Sukhavatîvyûha, even in its shortest text, is called a Mahâyâna-sûtra,
nor is there any reason why a Mahâyâna-sûtra should not be short.
The meaning of Mahâyâna-sûtra is simply a Sûtra belonging to the Mahâyâna
school, the school of the Great Boat. It was Burnouf who, in his
<hi rend='italic'>Introduction to the History of Buddhism</hi>, tried very hard to
establish a distinction between the Vaipulya or developed Sûtras, and what he calls the
simple Sûtras. Now, the Vaipulya Sûtras may all belong to the Mahâyâna
school, but that would not prove that all the Sûtras of the Mahâyâna school
are Vaipulya or developed Sûtras. The name of simple Sûtra, in opposition
to the Vaipulya or developed Sûtras, is not recognized by the Buddhists
themselves; it is really an invention of Burnouf's. No doubt there
is a great difference between a Vaipulya Sûtra, such as the Lotus of the
Good Law, translated by Burnouf, and the Sûtras which Burnouf translated
from the Divyâvadâna. But what Burnouf considers as the distinguishing
mark of a Vaipulya Sûtra, viz. the occurrence of Bodhisattvas,
as followers of the Buddha <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âkyamuni, would no longer seem to be
tenable (<q>Les présence des Bodhisattûvas ou leur absence intéresse done le fonds même
des livres où on la remarque, et il est bien évident que ce seul point trace une ligno
de démarcation profonde entre les Sûtras ordinaires et les Sûtras développés.</q>
Burnouf. <hi rend='italic'>Introduction</hi>, p. 112.),
unless we classed our short Sukhavatî-vyûha as a Vaipulya or developed
Sûtra. For this there is no authority. Our Sûtra is called a
Mahâyâna Sutra, never a Vaipulya Sûtra, and yet among the followers of
Buddha, the Bodhisattvas constitute a very considerable portion. But
more than that, Amitâbha, the Buddha of Sukhavatî, another personage
whom Burnouf looks upon as peculiar to the Vaipulya Sûtras, who is, in
fact, one of the Dhyâni-buddhas, though not called by that name in our
Sûtra, forms the chief object of its teaching, and is represented as coeval
with Buddha <hi rend='italic'>S</hi>âkyamuni. (<q>L'idée d'un ou de plusieurs Buddhas
surhumains, celle de Bodhisattvas créés par eux, sont des conceptions
aussi étrangères á ces livres (les Sûtras simples) que
celle d'un Adibuddha ou d'un Dieu.</q>&mdash;Burnouf,
<hi rend='italic'>Introduction</hi>, p. 120.) The larger text of the Sukhavatîvyûha would
certainly, according to Burnouf's definition, seem to fall into the category
of the Vaipulya Sûtras. But it is not so called in the MSS. which I have
seen, and Burnouf himself gives an analysis of that Sûtra
(<hi rend='italic'>Introduction</hi>, p. 99) as a specimen of a Mahâyâna, but
not of a Vaipulya Sûtra.</note>
</p>

<p>
This is the Mahâyânasûtra
called Sukhavatîvyûha.
</p>

<pb n='234'/><anchor id='Pg234'/>

<p>
This Sûtra sounds to us, no doubt, very different
from the original teaching of Buddha. And so it is.
Nevertheless it is the most popular and most widely
read Sûtra in Japan, and the whole religion of the
great mass of the people may be said to be founded
on it. <q>Repeat the name of Amitâbha as often as
you can, repeat it particularly in the hour of death,
and you will go straight to Sukhavatî and be happy
forever;</q> this is what Japanese Buddhists are asked
to believe: this is what they are told was the teaching
of Buddha. There is one passage in our Sûtra
which seems even to be pointedly directed against the
original teaching of Buddha. Buddha taught that as
a man soweth so shall he reap, and that by a stock of
good works accumulated on earth the way is opened
to higher knowledge and higher bliss. Our Sûtra
says No; not by good works done on earth, but by
a mere repetition of the name of Amitâbha is an
entrance gained into the land of bliss. This is no
better than what later Brahmanism teaches, viz.
<q>Repeat the name of Hari or of K<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>sh<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a,
and you will be saved.</q> It is no better than what even some
Christian teachers are reported to teach. It may be
that in a lower stage of civilization even such teaching
has produced some kind of good.<note place='foot'>See H. Yule,
<hi rend='italic'>Marco Polo</hi>, 2d ed. vol. i. pp. 441-443.</note> But Japan is
surely ripe for better things. What the worship of
Amitâbha may lead to we can learn from a description
given by Dr. Edkins in his <q>Trip to Ning-po
and T'hëen-t'hae.</q> <q>The next thing,</q> he writes,
<q>shown to us was the prison, in which about a dozen
<pb n='235'/><anchor id='Pg235'/>
priests had allowed themselves to be shut up for a
number of months or years, during which they were
to occupy themselves in repeating the name of Amida
Buddha,<note place='foot'>In China, as Dr. Edkins states, the doctrine of Amitâbha is
represented by the so-called Lotus school (Lian-tsung) or Pure Land (Tsing-tu). The
founder of this school in China was Hwei-yuan of the Tsin dynasty (fourth
century). The second patriarch (tsu) of this school was Kwang-ming
(seventh century).</note> day and night, without intermission. During
the day the whole number were to be thus engaged;
and during the night they took it by turns,
and divided themselves into watches, so as to insure
the keeping up of the work till morning. We asked
when they were to be let out. To which it was replied,
that they might be liberated at their own request,
but not before they had spent several months
in seclusion. We inquired what could be the use of
such an endless repetition of the name of Buddha.
To which it was answered, that the constant repetition
of the sacred name had a tendency to purify the
heart, to deaden the affections towards the present
world, and to prepare them for the state of Nirvâ<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>a.
It was further asked whether Buddha was likely to
be pleased with such an endless repetition of his
name. To which it was answered, that in the Western
world it was considered a mark of respect to repeat
the name of any one whom we delighted to
honor. The recluses seemed most of them young
men; some of whom came out to the bars of their
cage to look at the strangers, but kept on repeating
the name of Buddha as they stood there. It appeared
to us that nothing was more calculated to produce
idiocy than such a perpetual repetition of a single
name, and the stupid appearance of many of the
priests whom we have seen seems to have been induced
by some such process.</q>
</p>

<pb n='236'/><anchor id='Pg236'/>

<p>
Is it not high time that the millions who live in
Japan, and profess a faith in Buddha, should be told
that this doctrine of Amitâbha and all the Mahâyâna
doctrine is a secondary form of Buddhism, a corruption
of the pure doctrine of the Royal Prince, and
that if they really mean to be Buddhists, they should
return to the words of Buddha, as they are preserved
to us in the old Sûtras? Instead of depending, as
they now do, on Chinese translations, not always accurate,
of degraded and degrading Mahâyâna tracts,
why should they not have Japanese translations of
the best portions of Buddha's real doctrine, which
would elevate their character, and give them a religion
of which they need not be ashamed? There are
Chinese translations of some of the better portions
of the Sacred Writings of Buddhism. They exist in
Japan too, as may be seen in that magnificent collection
of the Buddhist Tripi<hi rend='italic'>t</hi>aka which was sent from
Japan as a present to the English Government, and
of which Mr. Beal has given us a very useful Catalogue.
But they are evidently far less considered in
Japan than the silly and the mischievous stories of
Amitâbha and his Paradise, and those which I know
from translations are far from correct.
</p>

<p>
I hope that Mr. Bunyiu Nanjio and Mr. Kasawara,
if they diligently continue their study of Sanskrit
and Pâli, will be able to do a really great and good
work, after their return to Japan. And if more
young Buddhist priests are coming over, I shall always,
so far as my other occupations allow it, be
glad to teach them, and to help them in their unselfish
work. There is a great future in store, I
believe, for those Eastern Islands, which have been
called prophetically <q>the England of the East,</q> and
<pb n='237'/><anchor id='Pg237'/>
to purify and reform their religion&mdash;that is, to bring
it back to its original form&mdash;is a work that must be
done before anything else can be attempted.
</p>

<p>
In return, I hope that they and their friends in
Japan, and in Corea and China too, will do all they
can to discover, if possible, some more of the ancient
Sanskrit texts, and send them over to us. A beginning,
at all events, has been made, and if the members
of this Society who have friends in China or
in Japan will help, if H. E. the Japanese Minister,
Mori Arinori, who has honored us by his presence today,
will lend us his powerful assistance, I have little
doubt that the dream which passed before the mind
of your late President may still become a reality, and
that some of the MSS. which, beginning with the beginning
of our era, were carried from India to China,
Corea, and Japan, may return to us, whether in the
original or in copies, like the one sent to me by Mr.
Shuntai Ishikawa.
</p>

<p>
With the help of such MSS. we shall be able all
the better to show to those devoted students who
from the extreme East have come to the extreme
West in order to learn to read their sacred writings
in the original Sanskrit or Pâli, what difference there
is between the simple teaching of Buddha and the
later developments and corruptions of Buddhism.
Buddha himself, I feel convinced, never knew even
the names of Amitâbha, Avalokite<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>vara, or Sukhavatî.
Then, how can a nation call itself Buddhist whose religion
consists chiefly in a belief in a divine Amitâbha
and his son Avalokite<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>vara, and in a hope of eternal
life in the paradise of Sukhavatî?
</p>

<pb n='238'/><anchor id='Pg238'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Postscript</hi>: <hi rend='italic'>Oxford, March 10, 1880.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The hope which I expressed in my paper on <q>Sanskrit
Texts discovered in Japan,</q> viz. that other Sanskrit
texts might still come to light in Japan or China,
has been fulfilled sooner than I expected. Mr. A
Wylie wrote to me on March 3 that he had brought
a number of Sanskrit-Chinese books from Japan, and
he afterwards kindly sent them to me to examine.
They were of the same appearance and character as
the dictionary which Dr. Edkins had lent me, and
the Sukhavatî-vyûha which I had received from Japan.
But with the exception of a collection of invocations,
called the Va<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>ra-sûtra, and the
short Pra<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>â-h<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>daya-sûtra,
they contained no continuous texts.
The books were intended to teach the Sanskrit alphabet,
and every possible and impossible combination
of the Devanâgarî letters, and that was all. Still, so
large a number of books written to teach the Sanskrit
alphabet augurs well for the existence of Sanskrit
texts. There was among Mr. Wylie's books a second
Chinese-Sanskrit-Japanese vocabulary, of which Mr.
Kasawara has given me the following account: <q rend='pre'>This
vocabulary is called <q>A Thousand Sanskrit and Chinese
Words</q> and it is said to have been arranged by
I-tsing, who left China for India in 671, about twenty-seven
years after Hiouen-thsang's return to China,
and who is best known as the author of a book called
Nanhae-ki-kwei-<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>ou'en, on the manners and customs
of the Indian Buddhists at that time.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>This vocabulary was brought from China to Japan
by Zikaku, a Japanese priest, who went to China
in 838 and returned in 847. It is stated at the end
of the book, that in the year 884 a Japanese priest of
<pb n='239'/><anchor id='Pg239'/>
the name of Rioyiu copied that vocabulary from a
text belonging to another priest, Yûĭkai. The edition
brought from Japan by Mr. Wylie was published
there in the year 1727 by a priest called Jakumio.</q>
</p>

<p>
The following curious passage occurs in the preface
of Jakumio's edition: <q rend='pre'>This vocabulary is generally
called <q>One Thousand Sanskrit and Chinese Words.</q>
It is stated in Annen's work, that this was first
brought (from China) by Zikaku. I have corrected
several mistakes in this vocabulary, comparing many
copies; yet the present edition is not free from blunders;
I hope the readers will correct them, if they
have better copies.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In the temple Hôriuji, in Yamato, there are
treasured Pra<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âpâramitâh<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>dayasûtram,
and Son-shio-dhâra<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>i,
written on two palm leaves, handed
down from Central India; and, at the end of these,
fourteen letters of the <q>siddha</q> are written. In the
present edition of the vocabulary the alphabet is in
imitation of that of the palm leaves, except such
forms of letters as cannot be distinguished from those
prevalent among the scriveners at the present day.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Hôriuji is one of eleven temples founded by the
prince Umayado (who died <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> 621). This temple
is at a town named Tatsuta, in the province Yamato,
near Kioto, the western capital.</q>
</p>

<p>
Here, then, we have clear evidence that in the
year 1727 palm leaves containing the text of Sanskrit
Sûtras were still preserved in the temple of
Hôriuji. If that temple is still in existence, might
not some Buddhist priest of Kioto, the western capital
of Japan, be induced to go there to see whether
the palm leaves are still there, and, if they are, to
make a copy and send it to Oxford?
</p>

<p>
F. M. M.
</p>

<pb n='240'/><anchor id='Pg240'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Second Postscript</hi>: <hi rend='italic'>Oxford, August 2,
1880.</hi>
</p>

<p>
At the end of my paper on <q>Sanskrit Texts in
Japan</q> I mentioned in a postscript (March 10) that
I had received from Mr. Wylie a copy of a vocabulary
called <q>A Thousand Sanskrit and Chinese Words,</q>
compiled by I-tsing, about 700 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, and brought to
Japan by Zikaku, a Japanese priest, in 847 <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>
The edition of this vocabulary which Mr. Wylie
bought in Japan was published by Jakumio in 1727,
and in the preface the editor says: <q>In the temple
Hôriuji, in Yamato, there are treasured
Pra<hi rend='italic'>gñ</hi>âpâramitâh<hi rend='italic'>ri</hi>daya-sûtram
and Sonshio-dhâra<hi rend='italic'>n</hi>î, written
on two palm leaves, handed down, from Central
India.</q>
</p>

<p>
Hôriuji is one of eleven temples founded by Prince
Umayado, who died in <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> 621. This temple is in
a town named Tatsuta, in the province Yamato, near
Kioto, the western capital. I ended my article with
the following sentence: <q>Here, then, we have clear
evidence that in the year 1727 palm leaves containing
the text of Sanskrit Sûtras were still preserved in
the temple of Hôriuji. If that temple is still in existence,
might not some Buddhist priest of Kioto, the
western capital of Japan, be induced to go there to
see whether the palm leaves are still there, and, if
they are, to make a copy and send it to Oxford?</q>
</p>

<p>
Sooner than expected this wish of mine has been
fulfilled. On April 28 Mr. Shigefuyu Kurihara, of
Kioto, a friend of one of my Sanskrit pupils, Mr.
Bunyiu Nanjio, who for some years had himself taken
an interest in Sanskrit, went to the temple or monastery
of Hôriuji to inquire whether any old Sanskrit
MSS. were still preserved there. He was told that
<pb n='241'/><anchor id='Pg241'/>
the priests of the monastery had recently surrendered
their valuables to the Imperial Government, and that
the ancient palm leaves had been presented to the
emperor.
</p>

<p>
In a chronicle kept at the monastery of Hôriuji it
is stated that these palm leaves and other valuables
were brought by Ono Imoko, a retainer of the Mikado
(the Empress Suiko), from China (during the
Sui dynasty, 589-618) to Japan, in the thirty-seventh
year of the age of Prince Umayado&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>,
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> 609.
The other valuable articles were:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
1. Niô, <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>, a cymbal used in Buddhist temples;
</p>

<p>
2. Midzu-game, a water vessel;
</p>

<p>
3. Shaku-jio, a staff, the top of which is armed
with metal rings, as carried by Buddhist
priests;
</p>

<p>
4. Kesa (Kashâya), a scarf, worn by Buddhist
priests across the shoulder, which belonged to
the famous Bodhidharma;
</p>

<p>
5. Ha<hi rend='italic'>k</hi>i, a bowl, given by the same Bodhidharma.
</p>
</quote>

<p>
These things and the Sanskrit MSS. are said to
have belonged to some Chinese priests, named Hwui-sz'
(Yeshi) and Nien-shan (Nenzen), and to four
others successively, who lived in a monastery on the
mountain called Nan-yo (Nangak), in the province of
Hăng (Kô) in China. These palm-leaf MSS. may,
therefore, be supposed to date from at least the sixth
century <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi>, and be, in fact,
<emph>the oldest Sanskrit MSS.
now in existence</emph>.<note place='foot'>See <ref target="Pg191">page 191</ref>.</note>
</p>

<p>
May we not hope that His Excellency Mori Arinori,
who expressed so warm an interest in this matter
<pb n='242'/><anchor id='Pg242'/>
when he was present at the meeting of the Royal
Asiatic Society, will now lend us his powerful aid,
and request the Minister of the Department of the
Imperial Household to allow these MSS. to be carefully
copied or photographed?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='243'/><anchor id='Pg243'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Index.</head>

<lg>
<l>Academic freedom not without dangers, <ref target="Pg039">39</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Adams</hi>, H. C., quoted, <ref target="Pg025">25</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Alphabet, phonetic, table of, <ref target="Pg150">150</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>reading according to, <ref target="Pg151">151</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Amyot</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg131">131</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Analogies, false, in comparative theology, <ref target="Pg098">98</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Anaxagoras</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg056">56</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Anglo-Saxon names for the days of the week, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Apostles, The, read the Veda, <ref target="Pg127">127</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Archbishops have no official position in English universities, <ref target="Pg008">8</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>, disrespectful remarks about, <ref target="Pg038">38</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>quoted, <ref target="Pg056">56</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Babylonian system of dividing gold and silver still found in the English sovereign, <ref target="Pg019">19</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of reckoning time found on the dial-plates of our clocks, <ref target="Pg019">19</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Beveridge</hi>, Bishop, quoted, <ref target="Pg030">30</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Bochart</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg098">98</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Brackett</hi>, A. C., quoted, <ref target="Pg088">88</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Budha, day of, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- and Buddha, distinction between, <ref target="Pg115">115</ref>, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Buddha, a personal and historical character, <ref target="Pg122">122</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>repetition of his name meritorious, <ref target="Pg235">235</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Buddhism, when recognized in China, <ref target="Pg191">191</ref> sq.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Japan converted to, <ref target="Pg213">213</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>and Scandinavian mythology, connection between, <ref target="Pg113">113</ref> sq., <ref target="Pg122">122</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Buhler</hi>, Dr., quoted, <ref target="Pg208">208</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Burnouf</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg112">112</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Cassius, Dio</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Chinese translators of Sanskrit texts, <ref target="Pg189">189</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Christian religion, historical and individual, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Clement of Alexandria</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg058">58</ref>, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Clodd</hi>, E., quoted, <ref target="Pg084">84</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Coincidences between Jewish and Pagan religious, <ref target="Pg098">98</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Colbourne</hi>, Wm., quoted, <ref target="Pg153">153</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Counting possible without language, <ref target="Pg067">67</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Daphne, meaning of, <ref target="Pg082">82</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Davids Rhys</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg016">16</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Dictionaries, value of, <ref target="Pg017">17</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Dogmatic teaching, evil of, <ref target="Pg031">31</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Donar, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Du Bois-Reymond</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg009">9</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Duhitar, a Sanskrit word for daughter, <ref target="Pg017">17</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Dyaus, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Edkins</hi>, Dr., quoted, <ref target="Pg205">205</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Education, academic, <ref target="Pg028">28</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>elementary, <ref target="Pg023">23</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>scholastic, <ref target="Pg024">24</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in the beginning purely dogmatic, <ref target="Pg022">22</ref>;</l>
<pb n='244'/><anchor id='Pg244'/>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>compulsory, mark of a new era, <ref target="Pg021">21</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>dangers of compulsory, <ref target="Pg022">22</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Ellis</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg111">111</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Ellis</hi>, A. J., quoted, <ref target="Pg155">155</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Empedokles</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg056">56</ref>, <ref target="Pg065">65</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>English, society, intolerance of, <ref target="Pg007">7</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- universities described, <ref target="Pg010">10</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>too little of academic freedom in, <ref target="Pg040">40</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- names for the days of the week, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- written in hieroglyphics, <ref target="Pg017">17</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- spelling, a national misfortune, <ref target="Pg022">22</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- present number of speaking, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>future number of speaking, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Epicharmos</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg055">55</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Esquimaux, tale among the, quoted, <ref target="Pg083">83</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Esthonian tale, quoted, <ref target="Pg086">86</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Examinations, good, to be rewarded by honor, <ref target="Pg044">44</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>a means to ascertain how pupils have been taught, <ref target="Pg043">43</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>strong feeling against, <ref target="Pg042">42</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Fergusson</hi>, Jas., quoted, <ref target="Pg113">113</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Figures, our, received from the Arabs, <ref target="Pg020">20</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Forgeries in Sanskrit MSS., <ref target="Pg109">109</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Freedom, address on, <ref target="Pg001">1</ref> sq.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of thought, meaning of, <ref target="Pg003">3</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Freethinkers, a title of honor, <ref target="Pg006">6</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>French, names for the days of the week, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>present number of speaking, <ref target="Pg137">137</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>future number of speaking, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Freyja, day of, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Friday, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Genus and Species, meaning of, <ref target="Pg032">32</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>German names for the days of the week, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- Middle-High, names for the days of the week, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- Old-High, names for the days of the week, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- present number of speaking, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>future number of speaking, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- Universities, how much time spent in lecturing in, <ref target="Pg039">39</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Grammars, Latin and Greek, deficiencies of, <ref target="Pg026">26</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Greek and Roman classics not read enough, <ref target="Pg025">25</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Greek philosophy, its development chiefly due to the absence of an established religion and influential priesthood, <ref target="Pg063">63</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>religion, national and traditional, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Gutzlaff</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg205">205</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Haekel</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg182">182</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Hall</hi>, Newman, quoted, <ref target="Pg154">154</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Helios, meaning of, <ref target="Pg080">80</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Helmholtz</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg007">7</ref>, <ref target="Pg040">40</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Herakleitos</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg058">58</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Heredity, meaning of, <ref target="Pg014">14</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Herodotus</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg058">58</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Herschel</hi>, Sir John, quoted, <ref target="Pg074">74</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Herzen</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg004">4</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Hillebrand</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg009">9</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Hipparchus</hi>, a Greek astronomer, <ref target="Pg019">19</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Hobbes</hi>, referred to, <ref target="Pg003">3</ref>, <ref target="Pg032">32</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Holwell</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg102">102</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Homer</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg071">71</ref>, <ref target="Pg079">79</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>condemned by Plato, <ref target="Pg059">59</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>his soul hanging in Hades on a tree, <ref target="Pg058">58</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hottentot fables quoted, <ref target="Pg085">85</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Huet</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg099">99</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Indians of Nicaragua, quotation
<pb n='245'/><anchor id='Pg245'/>
from a compendium of the theology of, <ref target="Pg070">70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Individualism, what? <ref target="Pg004">4</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Individuality, principle of, suffering more now than before, <ref target="Pg011">11</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Italian, present number of speaking, <ref target="Pg137">137</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>future number of speaking, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Jacolliott</hi>, quoted and criticised, <ref target="Pg123">123</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Japan converted to Buddhism, legend about, <ref target="Pg213">213</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Jehovah, name of, found in Chinese literature, <ref target="Pg131">131</ref>, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Jones</hi>, Sir. W., quoted, <ref target="Pg100">100</ref>, <ref target="Pg101">101</ref> sq., <ref target="Pg107">107</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- Eduard, quoted, <ref target="Pg144">144</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Josephus</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg116">116</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Jovis dies, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Julien</hi>, St., quoted, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Jupiter, the name, no mere accident, <ref target="Pg090">90</ref> sq.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>the thunderer, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Justin Martyr, quoted, <ref target="Pg117">117</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Karman, meaning of, <ref target="Pg015">15</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Knowledge, dead, dangerous, <ref target="Pg028">28</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Kû-fa-lan, works ascribed to him, <ref target="Pg194">194</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Kukai, founder of a sect in Japan, <ref target="Pg214">214</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Language and thought inseparable, <ref target="Pg067">67</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>its influence on thought, <ref target="Pg079">79</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Lapland, legend of, quoted, <ref target="Pg088">88</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Latin names for the days of the week, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mars, the god of war, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Meiklejohn</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg147">147</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mercurii dies, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Metrodorus</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg056">56</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Mill</hi>, J. S., quoted, <ref target="Pg001">1</ref>, <ref target="Pg012">12</ref>, <ref target="Pg021">21</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>his plea for liberty decried, <ref target="Pg004">4</ref>, without reason, <ref target="Pg005">5</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>his election to Parliament a triumph, <ref target="Pg006">6</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Milligan</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg076">76</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Montucci</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg130">130</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mosaic account of creation found among the Tahitians, <ref target="Pg111">111</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Müller's, M., rejoinder to Prof. Blackie, <ref target="Pg091">91</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mythology, meaning of, <ref target="Pg055">55</ref>, <ref target="Pg064">64</ref> sq., <ref target="Pg066">66</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>interest of, in our days, <ref target="Pg053">53</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>religion of the Greeks, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>now as there was in time of Homer, <ref target="Pg065">65</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>pervades the sphere of religion and of thought, <ref target="Pg069">69</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>philosophy of, lecture on, <ref target="Pg053">53</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Names to be submitted to very careful snuffing, <ref target="Pg037">37</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Nihilism, defined, <ref target="Pg004">4</ref>; dangers of, <ref target="Pg005">5</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Nirvana, definition of, <ref target="Pg016">16</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Nominalism, higher, or Science of Language, <ref target="Pg037">37</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Odin, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>, <ref target="Pg122">122</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Old-Norse names for the days of the week, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Omniscience to be avoided, <ref target="Pg047">47</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Oriental tongue, now spoken in Europe, <ref target="Pg016">16</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Over-examinations, complaints against, <ref target="Pg046">46</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Paradise. See <ref target="Index-Sukhavati">Sukhavati</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Phoibos, meaning of, <ref target="Pg081">81</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>and Daphne, story of, <ref target="Pg081">81</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Phonetic alphabet, table of, <ref target="Pg150">150</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>reading according to, <ref target="Pg151">151</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pioneer (an Indian paper), quoted, <ref target="Pg113">113</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Planets, their names, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>used for the names of the days of the week, <ref target="Pg116">116</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg059">59</ref> sq., <ref target="Pg079">79</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='246'/><anchor id='Pg246'/>

<lg>
<l>Population, table of supposed number of years required for doubling the, in different countries, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Portuguese, number of speaking, <ref target="Pg137">137</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Power and Responsibility of English Universities, <ref target="Pg010">10</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Psyche, meaning of, <ref target="Pg069">69</ref>, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Public opinion, <ref target="Pg011">11</ref>, <ref target="Pg012">12</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Religions, division of, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Remusat</hi> quoted, <ref target="Pg131">131</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Russian, number of speaking, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>society described, <ref target="Pg004">4</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sabbath mentioned by Roman and Greek writers, <ref target="Pg117">117</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sanskrit names for the days of the week, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- MSS., materials on which they were written, <ref target="Pg206">206</ref> sq.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 5'>searched for in China, <ref target="Pg203">203</ref> sq.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 5'>in Japan, <ref target="Pg210">210</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 5'>texts discovered in Japan, <ref target="Pg181">181</ref> sq.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 5'>translated by Chinese, <ref target="Pg189">189</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Saturni dies, <ref target="Pg116">116</ref> sq., <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Scandinavian mythology and Buddhism, connection between, <ref target="Pg113">113</ref> sq., <ref target="Pg122">122</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Schools in England and on the Continent, shortcomings of, <ref target="Pg025">25</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Self-government, dangers of, <ref target="Pg010">10</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Semiphonotopy, name for a style of spelling, <ref target="Pg141">141</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>reading according to, <ref target="Pg191">191</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Sextus Empiricus</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg058">58</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Snow, name for, <ref target="Pg077">77</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Society, human, secret of, <ref target="Pg013">13</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Sokrates</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg056">56</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sokratic method, <ref target="Pg024">24</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spanish, present number of speaking, <ref target="Pg137">137</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>future number of speaking, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Species</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Genus</hi>, meaning of, <ref target="Pg032">32</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spelling, reform of, <ref target="Pg133">133</ref> sq., <ref target="Pg135">135</ref> sq.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>favorite subject with Roman scholars, <ref target="Pg140">140</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Stahl</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg069">69</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Sueton</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg116">116</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sukhavati-vyûha, a title of a Buddhist Sutra, <ref target="Pg214">214</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>list of MSS. of, now extant, <ref target="Pg216">216</ref> sq.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>translation of, <ref target="Pg220">220</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<anchor id="Index-Sukhavati"/>
<lg>
<l>Sukhavati, or Paradise, described, <ref target="Pg223">223</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sun, sign or name for, <ref target="Pg075">75</ref> sq., <ref target="Pg078">78</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sunrise, feelings at the, <ref target="Pg074">74</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Swift</hi>, Dean, quoted, <ref target="Pg134">134</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Table of the names of the days of the week in&mdash;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Anglo-Saxon, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>English, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>French, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>German, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>-- Middle-High, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>-- Old-High, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Latin, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Old Norse, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Sanskrit, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Table of the names of the Planets, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Tacitus</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Teachers to be natural examiners, <ref target="Pg043">43</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Testament, the Old, accounts of, found in the literature of the Brahmans, <ref target="Pg100">100</ref>, <ref target="Pg106">106</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>-- Old and New, found in the Vedas., <ref target="Pg123">123</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 5'>borrowed from Brahmans and Buddhists, <ref target="Pg101">101</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Theology, on false analogies in comparative, <ref target="Pg098">98</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Thirlwall</hi>, Bishop, quoted, <ref target="Pg143">143</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Thought and language inseparable, <ref target="Pg067">67</ref>.</l>
</lg>


<pb n='247'/><anchor id='Pg247'/>

<lg>
<l>Thor, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Thunar, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Thursday, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Tiu, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Tocqueville, De</hi>, referred to, <ref target="Pg012">12</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Trench</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg169">169</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Tylor</hi>, E. B., quoted, <ref target="Pg070">70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Uniformity, dangers of, <ref target="Pg012">12</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Universities, English and German, compared, <ref target="Pg007">7</ref> sq.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>differences between, <ref target="Pg009">9</ref> sq.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>guardians of freedom of thought, <ref target="Pg028">28</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>mediæval and modern, home of free thought, <ref target="Pg051">51</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vaksh, Sanskrit word for to grow, like the English to wax, <ref target="Pg017">17</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Veneris dies, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vid, Sanskrit word for to know, like the English to wit, <ref target="Pg017">17</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Virgil</hi> quoted, <ref target="Pg071">71</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Vosisus</hi>, S. J., quoted, <ref target="Pg099">99</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Week, names of the seven days of the, received from the names of the planets, <ref target="Pg116">116</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Weeks and week-days, system of counting, first introduced in Egypt, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Wilford</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg106">106</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Wilson</hi>, quoted, <ref target="Pg188">188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wodan, day of, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wunsch or Wish, name of Wuotan, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wuotan, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Xenophanes</hi>, on Homer and Hesiod, <ref target="Pg057">57</ref> sq.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Zeus Kronīon, meaning of, <ref target="Pg080">80</ref>, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ziu, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>.</l>
</lg>
</div>
</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
